South African comedian Trevor Noah’s autobiography, Born A Crime: Stories From a South African Childhood, is now part of the curriculum in schools His book is being studied in schools in Newmark, New Jersey, in the USA. The comedian told Los Angeles Times that to go from a kid who was always in trouble for something or other, to now have my book being taught in school is quite a jump. Noah who is best known for being the host of The Daily Show on Comedy Central since September 2015, said he doesn’t think the book is a product of himself, but rather him telling a story comprised of many other narratives. READ MORE: South African director to helm Trevor Noah movie “Part of it is South Africa’s story, part of it is my family’s story, my mother’s story, the lessons she taught me. Then, obviously, my interpretation of the world I was raised in,” he was quoted as saying. The 34-year-old comedy genius told the newspaper that the move to use the book in schools was “beautiful”. “I do think the lessons we learnt in apartheid South Africa are stories that apply to the world. You do see vestiges of that in America today.” “It’s an easy story to understand because South Africa’s racism was so blatant and so unavoidable. I think it’s a nice place to learn how to have conversations on a topic that has become very fraught with political landmines everywhere you go,” he said. Born a Crime (Spiegel & Grau) was published in 2016 and received great reviews worldwide. In the book, the comedian tells the story of growing up in South Africa as a son of a white father and a black mother during the apartheid era. At the time, it was a criminal offence for black and white people to have a romantic relationship. This meant Noah was “born a crime”. READ MORE: Trevor Noah Foundation to uplift vulnerable South African youth The autobiography will be adapted to a film to be directed by South African Liesl Tommy. Oscar-winner Lupita Nyong’o will star as Noah’s mother. Additional reporting by Los Angeles Times 