Parliament's register of members' interests reveals some of the off-beat items MPs have been gifted over the past financial year We all know about the traditional perks that come along with being an MP, but there seem to be other fringe benefits the country’s law-makers receive from business leaders, politicians and organisations, both locally and abroad. Tickets to hospitality suites at various music and sporting events proved to be a popular gift choice and it comes as no surprise that the first citizen, President Cyril Ramaphosa, led the gift count tally. One gift-giver reckoned Ramaphosa needed a how-to book on entrepreneurship, while others gifted him with expensive wine, a sable antelope sculpture and a host of other books. The Cuban Embassy also gifted the President with a bottle of premium rum – Ron Brugal Anejo Superior rum – that is specifically designed to be paired with cigars. H also received 26 Cuban cigars. READ MORE: It’s gifts galore for SA’s members of Parliament Ramaphosa declared his directorship in a number of meat abattoirs and ownership of 32 properties in Cape Town and Joburg. Minister of Public Service and Administration Ayanda Dlodlo was fortunate enough to receive a Huawei 7″ tablet. Not quite as lucky as the President, Telecommunications and Postal Services Minister Siyabonga Cwele received a 500g bag of jasmine rice, while Minister of Environmental Affairs Edna Molewa was gifted with a fragment from the Berlin Wall. Going back to his isiZulu roots, Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba was gifted with a Zulu spear and shield worth R907, while embattled Minister of Women Bathabile Dlamini received a traditional Xhosa outfit worth R5 250. Perhaps to ensure his sugar levels don’t drop during those marathon parliamentary sessions that can run well into the night, the Chinese Embassy sent Deputy Minister  for Public Works Jeremy Cronin a  box of biscuits worth a staggering R400. READ MORE: From sheep to shares, South Africa’s MPs declare their interests EFF leader Julius Malema had nothing to declare outside of his interest in the infamous Ratanang Family Trust, while DA leader Mmusi Maimane received, among other items, sneakers and socks. On a serious note, questions need to be asked around why the University of Limpopo sponsored the travel costs for former State Security Minister Bonging Bongo to attend a council meeting when he has access to state vehicles. Co-Chairperson of Parliament’s joint committee on ethics and members’ interests Omie Singh said the 42 MPs who had failed to meet last year’s deadline to submit declarations would “be given an opportunity to show why they should not be penalised for breaching the code after which the committee will resolve on whether to sanction a member or not”.