Working women can have it all when it comes to family, children and a career, but they can’t do it alone There has been enormous interest in the pregnancy of New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Aldern, who has just given birth to a daughter – becoming only the second woman in history (after Indian PM Benazir Bhutto) to do so while in office. In interviews, Aldern has said that her child will be primarily looked after by the father, her partner Clarke Gayford. “I am no superwoman nor should any woman be expected to be one. We achieve what we achieve through grit, determination and help,” Aldern said in an interview with the BBC. Aldern added that she believed women could have it all, but that they shouldn’t have to do it alone. READ MORE: Being a working mum is beneficial to your children’s future careers Many other women at the top would agree. Nicky Newton King, the first woman to head up the JSE in South Africa, for instance, famously has a househusband with whom, she has said, these kinds of choices and decisions were discussed immediately after he proposed. Gloria Serobe, another South African businesswoman pioneer, has said that there is no such thing as balancing home and career. “It is not balanceable. You have to have a good support network in place.” Unfortunately, for too many women in South Africa, this is often not an option. Single working mothers are commonplace, with recent research showing that the country has one of the highest rates of absent fathers in sub-Saharan Africa with as many as 60% of children under the age of 10 not living with their biological fathers. “This may be a contributing reason why women struggle to make it to senior leadership roles,” says Dr Makgathi Mokwena, a therapist and leadership development expert who co-convenes the Developing Women in Leadership programme at the University of Cape Town Graduate School of Business (GSB). “Statistics show that there are equal numbers of professional women at entry level and junior and middle management level in South African organisations – but something is stopping these women from advancing. In corporate South Africa, only 29% of senior positions in business are held by women according to the 2018 Grant Thornton Women in Business report,” she says. READ MORE: Why working mums need to be hands-on at home “Women seem to ‘disappear’ when it comes to the senior level,” says Sue von Hirschfeld, who co-convenes the Developing Women in Leadership programme with Mokwena. “The reasons are complex and multi-faceted, but there is a fair amount of research showing that a lack of support, prejudice and stereotyping, as well as personal factors such as self-doubt and a lack of self-confidence combine to deter women from advancing. 