Average take-home salaries dramatically declined in May, as government wage settlements were delayed, according to BankservAfrica BankservAfrica’s latest take-home pay report points to employees having to carry the burden of the current shrinking economy, while private pensions bolster consumer spending. The BankservAfrica Take-hHme Pay Index is a time series which collects salaries paid into employed people’s data from the centre of the payment system. According to the BankservAfrica Take-home Pay Index (BTPI) for May, the delay dragged down average real take-home pay and is likely to continue until July. The BankservAfrica Private Pensions Index (BPPI) for May, however, continued its 15-month consecutive increase trend, bolstering consumer spending in the economy. READ MORE: Index shows salary increases in all sectors between 2015/16 “The average take-home salary was R14 290 in current terms for May 2018, showing a decline of 1,3% on May 2017, says Shergeran Naidoo, Head: Stakeholder Engagement, at BankservAfrica. “In real terms, the average salary was R13 621, R290 less than for April 2018. Salary payments through our system indicate that the typical take-home pay was actually closer to R10 730 in May, which showed an increase of 2,8% before inflation from the typical take-home salary of R10 010 in constant 2016 terms.  However, with inflation, typical salaries declined with 1.5%,” he adds. The public service is the largest employer and the largest single wage bill in South Africa, accounting for a total wage bill of just over 25% of the total non-farm formal sector wage bill and between 33%-35% of the total take-home salaries paid by BankservAfrica. Chief Economist at Economists.co.za Mike Schüssler notes that the decline in take-home pay puts the BTPI at the same level as in December 2013, with the small gains that the index had made being lost due to the delayed public service wage settlement.  As such, May is likely to reflect badly not only for retailers but also for other sectors that rely on consumer spending. He cautions that take-home pay levels are likely to remain under pressure until July when the public service wage increases, as well as back-pay, come into effect. Privately banked pensions in May continued its growth path for the 15th consecutive month, increasing by 4,5% in real terms, according to the BPPI. The BPPI is the only monthly pension measurement in the world and records over 670 000 pension payments every month. “In current prices, private pensions increased by 9,2% on a year-on-year basis,” says Naidoo. READ MORE: Salary benchmarks for 2017 He adds that in nominal terms, the average pension increased to R7 430 in May 2018. In real terms, the BPPI was R6 976 for the month of May 2018. Average private pensions payment now represents 52% of the average take-home pay, the highest ever recorded and for the second month in a row. The BankservAfrica Take-home Pay Index is a reflection of pay after deductions pay trends in the formal economy paid electronically, via the South African payment system.   