Your salary isn't the only benefit you should be concerned about when it comes to work-related negotiations It’s true, money makes the world go around and it is a vital component of everyday survival, but it’s not the be-all-and-end-all as far as employment benefits are concerned. Employees often overlook the fringe benefits that could significantly impact their lifestyle and forget that the longer they’ve been working, the more leverage they will have. Here are the four things you shouldn’t neglect when negotiating. Flexi-time Flexi-time isn’t an inherent benefit to which employees are entitled, but it’s certainly a subject that you have every right to broach with your employer. You need to have a plan of action. Decide whether you’re going to ask for one day a week or more to work at home, but make sure it’s a reasonable request. READ MORE: Negotiating flexitime for working mothers Devise a detailed strategy on how you plan to not only meet your current responsibilities, but exceed them. This will give your request better gravitas. Better title In today’s workplace, titles make all the difference and if you’re able to request a title change, take the opportunity. If, for instance, your current job title is secretary, why not approach your employer for a title change to executive assistant? Your elevated title will give you a leg-up when you’re looking for your next job down the line. Maternity leave HR Development Manager Claire Bissot advises women who want to spend more time at home after giving birth to try negotiate for a soft re-entry. READ MORE: The benefits of working out during your lunch break (and how to make it work) “After your child’s birth, you might want to work just a few days a week or arrange to work from home much of the time. Just be sure to consult with your HR manager to make sure that reduced hours, even for a short period of time, don’t negatively impact benefits,” she advises. Personal development and training You can approach this negotiation from a win-win perspective – the more the company upskills you, the more it benefits from your development. Make sure you ask about any advancement opportunities the organisation offers at the interview stage already so that your employer is aware of your hunger for growth.