We've rounded up five beauty essentials to keep in your desk drawer for those no-mess no-fuss touch-ups throughout the day We arrive at work with faces perfectly done, but come lunchtime, our lipstick is long-faded, our foundation looks tired and the mascara that was sitting so perfectly on the lashes has shifted, leaving ugly smudges under the eyes. But don’t worry, we’ve got you covered. Freshen up There’s nothing better than a quick midday pick-me-up for the skin once it starts feeling dry and tight because of air-conditioned environments. Hydrating face mists are a great way to revitalise the skin, and they also prolong the life of your make-up. Try: Eau Thermale Avène’s Thermale Spring Water:  Illuminate your face Nothing says I’m awake and ready to take on the rest of the day better than beautiful illuminated skin. Revive your glow by keeping a highlighter or bronzer in your top drawer. Apply it just above your cheekbones for that healthy dewy look. READ MORE: Top tips for buying make-up for darker skin tones Try: CATRICE Sun Glow Matt Bronzing Powder 020:   Revitalise those lips 100% mineral make-up brand Bodyography has an amazing lip duo that gives lips a silky appearance thanks to the sugar scrub. Then, the solid lip oil helps condition the lips with its natural vitamins and minerals, leaving them looking and feeling refreshed, and perfectly primed for you to slap on another lippy colour halfway through the day. Try: Exfoliating lip duo by Bodyography: Give those eyes a boost You can never go wrong with a concealer that does it all: from keeping imperfections out of sight (those spots that appear out of nowhere during the day), and even better, covering up dark circles under the eyes (think that creeping mascara). READ MORE: 5 make-up mistakes that make you look older Try: Estee Lauder’s Double Wear Waterproof All Day Extreme Wear Concealer:  Refresh your scent Citrus notes are a great pick-me up for energy slumps, and are also great for boosting mental vitality and helping to clear the mind. Keep a fragrance with orange, lemon or mandarin notes in your drawer for when you need to hit that Refresh button to get you through the second half of your day. You’ll feel great and smell amazing too! Beauty Ed’s choice: Nuxe Prodigiux le parfum: 