Wanting to help small businesses flourish, Khanyisela Dayi-Moeletsi established an accounting and advisory consultancy Dayi-Moeletsi didn’t set out to become an entrepreneur: her plan was to become the CEO of an established company, especially after her first business failed. “Baba Gump, my children’s clothing line, failed after just a year. I didn’t fully commit to it: I was working full-time as an accountant and I neglected it, so it fell apart. I know the pain of losing a business,” she says. However, when she began doing her personal trainer’s books, he referred her to his other clients and a new business just grew. “I launched it almost 10 months ago. I’d never aimed to do so, but once I had a client list, I went for it. I kept my costs low working from home and invested my capital in marketing, branding and accounting systems,” says Dayi-Moeletsi. READ MORE: Entrepreneurs Lita and Hombisa want South Africans to build their own empires “I didn’t just want offer accounting services – I aimed to offer more and make a real impact. I found my niche in outsourcing my services to small businesses which can’t afford to have in-house accountants. I don’t bill by the hour, but charge a set price, so my services are more affordable. I look at each business as a whole, from how it accesses credit to the way it’s billed by suppliers and even the landscape of its industry.” She adds that despite having an impressive number of clients, she’s battled to be taken seriously as a young black woman. “It’s a challenge I’m still dealing with, but it helps you become professional and prepared, which boosts your reputation. I’ve already started to see positive growth in three of the businesses I work with.  Realising that my services are need and give value is incredibly rewarding,” she says. “I grew up in the Eastern Cape and know what it feels like to wake up every day with nothing to do and no sense of purpose. I want to help combat unemployment and entrepreneurship does that.” This is also the reason she offers free services to start-ups. “I’ve created free business blueprints with documents and templates providing business management accounting information for the first year of operation. That way, the business knows what it needs to do and I’m building relationships with future brands,” she explains. READ MORE: Accounting and business management demystified She’s also planning to launch a range of personal finance workshops addressing everything from money management to savings and interest. Despite her many responsibilities running her business, Dayi-Moeletsi’s also the Events Co-ordinator for the local chapter of Startup Grind, a monthly networking initiative operating in 250 cities worldwide which features talks by successful entrepreneurs. DAYI-MOELETSI’S TIPS FOR STAYING RELEVANT 