If you're in your 30s and looking to advance your career in the banking sector, here's everything you need to know Everyone knows that generally speaking, the best way to advance your career is through up-skilling, but with so many course choices available, how do you know which qualification or course is most beneficial? This is a question DESTINY reader Kelello, who is 30 and works in banking, wanted answered. Sibongile Mazibuko, Senior Manager at Standard Bank, says there isn’t a simple answer because banking has changed so much over the years. “In years gone by, you started as a teller and worked your way up to bank manager, or studied for a BCom to get into banking, that’s not the case any more. Banking now is very complex and you cannot necessarily say you have a particular type of education,” Mazibuko says. READ MORE: Six behaviours that will end your career faster than you can imagine These days, banks employ people from different sectors, including engineers, who handle the digital, transport and business-processing side of the business. Agriculturalists deal with financing for farmers. People with psychology degrees are good at driving customer service. “If you want to get to highly specialised areas such as financing energy infrastructure, you may want people who have detailed knowledge in town planning. All those degrees live in the bank. The long and short of it is that it’s not a ‘streamline’ thing, it’s all dependent on what you want to specialise in – you can even advance yourself into different types of specialisation,” advises Mazibuko. An MBA is good for senior management and for when you want to go into managing the business. A Chattered Financial Analyst qualification is specifically for people who are going into financial advisory. Those will be people who are selling insurance, financial planning, wealth planning and so on. “Banks are not traditional anymore. They look at a broad scope of things and you have different opportunities within the environment to expose yourself. The best thing would be to talk to people in areas where you want to advance yourself and understand what it is that they have done or studied.” READ MORE: How to develop a personal brand and advance your career Kelvin Ogre, GM at The Banking Academy in Centurion, says there’s no set formula when it comes to fast-tracking your career. “Maybe you can consider actuarial sciences, economic risk or financial mathematics if you want to go in the direction of economic risk strategist. These qualifications deal with mathematics. The CFA is also a good qualification if you are considering going into investment strategy. Banks now pull their senior staff from different departments and how you progress depends on you. They will provide you with experience, resources and you will acquire skills – you can decide on the direction you want to take,” he says.