Fashion designer Kate Spade (55) was found and pronounced dead in her Park Avenue apartment on Tuesday, the New York Police Department confirmed Law enforcement officials told the Associated Press that it was an apparent suicide and that housekeeping staff found Spade hanging in the apartment at around 10.20am. She left a note and her husband was at the scene, police confirmed to The Washington Post. Police added that the investigation is ongoing and had no further comment. A representative for Spade said she did not have a statement at this time. Spade became synonymous with the popular fashion brand that bore her name. Together with soon-to-be-husband Andy Spade, she founded the Kate Spade label in 1993 as a collection of handbags and accessories. It eventually became known for its bold colour palette and functional products, including stationery, beauty products and eyewear. The first Kate Spade shop opened in New York in 1996. Three years later, the couple sold Kate Spade to Neiman Marcus, which then sold it to Liz Claiborne in 2007. Both founders eventually left the brand, which is now a part of Tapestry Inc. There are more than 140 Kate Spade retail and outlet stores in the USA and more than 175 internationally. “Kate Spade, the visionary founder of our brand, has passed,” reads a statement from the Kate Spade New York label. “Our thoughts are with her family at this incredibly heartbreaking time. We honour all the beauty she brought into this world.” Born Katherine Brosnahan in Kansas City, Missouri, Spade studied journalism at Arizona State University and landed a job at Condé Nast in New York City. She started as an assistant at the fashion publishing giant, where she eventually worked her way up to senior fashion editor at Mademoiselle, dealing with accessories for fashion shoots. At the time, “bags were too complicated,” Spade later recalled to NPR. “And I really loved very simple kind of architectural shapes. And I would wear these very simple shapes, none of which were famous designers. I mean, there were no names. If someone were to say, whose is that? I’d say, I don’t know, I bought it at a vintage store or it’s a straw bag I got in Mexico. “They were all very square and simple,” Spade said. “And I thought: ‘Gosh, I mean, why can’t we find something just clean and simple and modern?'” READ MORE: The countdown is on… LUMINANCE She would soon quit her magazine job to join with Andy Spade in co-founding the fashion label, which combined both of their names (she was still Kate Brosnahan at the time). Spade was an Emeritus Chair of the New York Centre for Children, an organisation that advocates for and helps treat victims of child abuse. She became more involved in philanthropy work after leaving her brand in 2007. In 2016, the Spades launched a luxury handbag and footwear brand called Frances Valentine. Spade changed her name to Kate Valentine Spade that year and told Women’s Wear Daily: “Frances is a longtime family name on my dad’s side. My grandfather, father, brother and my daughter’s name is Frances. And then Valentine was my mum’s dad’s middle name because he was born on Valentine’s Day.” The couple described their joint creative process to Business of Fashion ahead of the new brand’s launch. “Kate will pick apart a colour,” Andy said. “She’ll go through it 80 times to make sure it’s the right brown. I think I’m more ‘broad concepts’ and Kate is more detailed.” Kate added: “The sensibility is the same. This time around, I like the idea that it’s small, intimate, and that everyone that we work with we’ve worked with before. I like the idea of being more behind the scenes.” Spade is survived by her husband and daughter. News of Spade’s death prompted an outpouring of grief and tributes from fans on social media. – African News Agency