Thinking about investing, but don’t want to follow the traditional route of investing with traditional banks? If you want to invest your money with black-owned asset management companies, you might want to read this This is what was on the mind of DESTINY reader Phetsile Khoza, who wrote in to our Dear Destiny community platform, which focuses on finding answers to your questions. According to the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals (ABSIP), there are 45 black-owned asset management companies in the country. READ MORE: [DEAR DESTINY] How to advance your banking career in your 30s Not all of them are 100% black-owned, but most range from above 60%-100% black ownership. ABSIP’s response is based on the survey by 27Four Investment Managers in 2017, which started conducting surveys of black fund management firms in South Africa in 2007 to measure the progress of transformation within the industry. Asanda Notshe, Fund Manager at Mazi Capital, says: “The important thing when choosing a black-owned company to take care of your investment is to look at performance. A company like Mazi Capital, for example, has 89% black ownership and is one of the best performers in asset management. It’s the only black-owned company that has won the prestigious Morningstar award for the best equity fund for the performance of its Prime Equity Fund.” 27Four ‘s latest survey reveals that Aluwani Capital, Taquanta Asset Managers, Mazi Capital, Kagiso Asset Management, Argon, Vunani Fund Managers and Mergence Investment Managers as being among the top 10 best-performing black-owned asset management companies. Combined, black-owned asset management companies employ more than 580 people and 40% of these contribute towards financial literacy and education programmes. Notshe says: “The good thing about investing with black asset managers is outlook and perspective. What I mean by that is that such companies employ people who understand what is required in terms of investment in the township to uplift people from unemployment, which is huge among black people. It helps to have someone who understands what the needs of the country are holistically, not just from one side of it. “These other guys don’t have the perspective that comes from having an uncle who is unemployed or a cousin on nyaope – those types of things. Just having that mindset differentiates us. Last year, during the ANC conference, traditional companies were very pessimistic, investing money offshore because they felt the country was not going anywhere. READ MORE: [DEAR DESTINY] Innovative ways to grow your business “We don’t have visas or citizenship options elsewhere, so we have to make the country work. Now, if you look at thriving economies around the world, they first invest their money locally, before looking internationally. Why? Because when you invest money in your own economy, it creates opportunities and grows the economy, so it just makes sense. But I guess these other guys don’t have as broad a perspective as we do.” 