Endeavor South Africa has announced Saryx Engineering Group as the overall winner of the 2018 FNB Business Innovation Awards Saryx, which offers innovative solutions to help companies of all sizes track document compliance and share documents securely, was founded by Ingrid Osborne and Julie Mathieson. Saryx offers the HSEC Online hosted software service that digitises company safety and compliance. It helps companies of all sizes track document compliance (for a company, people and equipment), share these documents securely, and provides a transparent, collaborative workflow platform to do so, accessible on any platform at any time. The founders were the only female entrepreneurs among the finalists. “Being chosen as a winner from the nine great businesses fundamentally affirms our business model. We have done some amazing work and continue to evolve while moving the needle in the industry using new innovate and technological tools,” says Osborne. “Winning this award is a step in the right direction to access global markets. We are very excited about the future and the opportunities that this accolade will afford our business,” adds Mathieson. READ MORE: First Township Entrepreneur Awards honour Maponya Osborne and Mathieson will be sponsored by FNB to participate at the coveted two-day Endeavor International Selection Panel in Argentina in September. ISP brings together high-impact entrepreneurs to present their business to world-leading business personalities for a chance to be part of an exclusive global network. Mike Vacy-Lyle, CEO of FNB Business, says the FNB Business Innovation Awards is an incredible platform that showcases business excellence and the potential of South Africa’s entrepreneurs. “Since the launch of the awards in 2015, we have seen winners and finalists go on to become thought leaders and employment creators in their respective industries. This attests to the ability of the initiative to enable businesses with the highest potential to scale to access global markets. Congratulations to Saryx for winning this prestigious award and to all the businesses that took part in this year’s competition,” he says.  “The FNB Business Innovation Awards is a celebration of the remarkable journeys of some of our country’s entrepreneurial role models. These founders are committed to building successful local businesses that drive much needed economic growth and job creation,” adds Catherine Townshend, MD of Endeavor South Africa. READ MORE: Nominations are open for the top 50 women innovators “Congratulations to Ingrid Osborne and Julie Mathieson on a remarkable journey in founding and building the business to this point. Through Endeavor and the exposure at the ISP, we are confident that they will be even more motivated to think bigger and engage with a network of like-minded ambitious entrepreneurs that are driven to build a local business with a global footprint.” The competition selection criteria for this year included the following aspects for individuals: The businesses in the competition needed to have a minimum annual turnover of R10 million and be founder-led. Factors such as brand and reputation, stakeholder relations and goodwill, environmental sustainability, social responsibility and quality of governance were all taken into consideration during the process of selecting the winner.