[FEATURED] More people are using technology, but only a few pursue studies in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Shell wants to change that The science and technology sectors are vital to growing national economies. STEM fields should be prioritised because they are deeply woven into everyone’s lifestyles in this day and age. “Science surrounds us every day,” says Panyaza Lesufi, the Gauteng MEC for Education. “Technology creates many things we might be hard-pressed to live without. Every day, we enjoy the many benefits of scientific discovery, technology and commerce. Science makes life easier for all of us,” he says. This is where Shell has come in. The company believes that young people need to be prepared to think deeply, learning how to tackle real-world problems with STEM disciplines so that they can become the innovators, researchers, and leaders of the future. Shell’s goal is to inspire young people to pursue careers in STEM fields. The company has created various education programmes through which teachers are trained to better impart science and mathematics subjects to primary and high school pupils. Shell’s focus is on building educator and learner capacity in STEM in order to reduce scarce skills and create a pipeline of talent. Rally to Numeracy: Introduced in 2011, this flagship education programme has been rolled out in KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape, Western Cape, Northern Cape and Free State. It has expanded educator understanding and teaching of the mathematical syllabus and improved numeracy levels in beneficiary schools. Scholarships for maths and science learners: Shell has adopted five schools in Ekurhuleni to support learners and teachers in maths and science and reward high-performers with bursaries to further their studies in these fields. Bursary Programme: Based on financial need and high academic performance, Shell provides bursaries towards tertiary education annually. In partnership with institutions such as the Maths Centre and the Read Foundation, Shell has been able to give quality STEM learning opportunities to teachers and students with an aim of cultivating about 50% of STEM learners by 2020. As former US President Barack Obama said in March 2015: “[Science] is more than a school subject, or the periodic table, or the properties of waves. “It is an approach to the world, a critical way to understand and explore and engage with the world, and then have the capacity to change that world.”