The ever-increasing crime rate has left many South African reeling in fear, opening up opportunities for security companies and gun ownership Owning a firearm isn’t a guarantee of protection, says an expert. Head of Justice and Violence Prevention Programme from the Institute for Security Studies Gareth Newham warns that firearms come with their own risks and responsibilities. He says that hijackers and home intruders don’t warn their victims when they want to attack, and this often leaves those who own a gun without an opportunity to retaliate or fight back. Newham says the rate of violent crime has been escalating at an alarming rate since 2012 and most South Africans feel safer when they own a firearm. Such an incident of mistaken identity occurred this week when a father mistakenly shot and killed his son outside a school in Ennerdale, south of Johannesburg, on Tuesday evening. READ MORE: Our members are competent with guns: Saps Emanuel Tshabalala (51), who was asleep inside his car, thought his child, who was trying to wake him up, was a hijacker. He has since been released on a warning. He told the Lenasia Magistrate’s Court in an affidavit that after firing the weapon his son had said: “Daddy, it’s me.” Tshabalala, who is employed as a security officer at the vehicle unit of the South African Police Service in Krugersdorp, said the incident would haunt him for the rest of his life. “This is my first accident and a painful one.” People also turn to security companies to get lessons on how to protect themselves during hijacking incidents. “There has been an increase in hijacking, there have been more victims and the more people are scared of being hijacked and they seek other ways to protect themselves,” says Newham. He says security companies have seen an opportunity and are exploiting that fear in order to provide a service – training people on how to respond to hijacking. “When people are scared of crime, they look at ways to protect themselves and one of these ways is to obtain a firearm, but unfortunately, it doesn’t guarantee your safety,” he says. According to Newham, independent research has shown that when you reduce the number of firearms in any society, people are safer and criminals battle to find guns. When people purchase firearms, they are not likely to use them effectively to defend themselves, and they become the target of criminals. “Domestic violence disputes are more likely to result in death – so almost 6/10 of women who are murdered in South Africa are shot dead by their spouses or their husbands, who are people carrying firearms,” he says. READ MORE: Public hospitals spend billions on gunshot wounds each year He says some scenarios involve the owner of the firearm accidentally shooting the family member or a child getting hold of the firearm and accidentally shooting someone. “It’s generally not an effective way of defending yourself. Some people who carry a firearm are more likely to take risks, which they wouldn’t normally do if they didn’t have a firearm,” he concludes.  