Kevali Chemicals was started when five professionals realised that they had the right composition of competencies and experience to make an impact in the sector The company started when five professionals with years of experience in the sector saw an opportunity in the market. One of the co-founders, Funeka Khumalo, says this led to a discussion about the need to start a company. “When it started, it was just a group of friends discussing different business opportunities that we could take advantage of and as part of the discussions, we actually identified a big gap when it comes to companies that provide industrial chemicals,” says Khumalo. Kevali Chemicals, which was started in 2014, is one of the companies to have benefited from the Black Industrialists Scheme (BIS) Programme. The Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) and the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) have played a significant role in making this possible. READ MORE: Women-run marketing agency breaking boundaries The company, which recently launched a plant in Harrismith in the Free State, is one of the first approved BIS projects to be launched in that province. Operating in the chemicals, pharmaceuticals and plastics sector, Kevali currently employs 57 people and supports a further 12 indirect jobs. Kevali provides customised solutions within the chemicals industry with a focus on hygiene and sanitation, water treatment and adhesives. The company also provides treatment solutions for drinking water. Executive Director Khumalo says the some of the business partners used to use water treatment chemicals during their time in manufacturing and as such, know what their customers want. “We thought: ‘Why can’t we come together?’ – because we had the experience, the expertise and the education. Basically, that’s how we started the company,” she says. To get off the ground, Kevali co-founders Dan Pillay, Bongumusa Kunene, Dumisani Khanyile, Hakim Zeghimi and Khumalo bought an ImproChem division – a leading supplier of water process treatment solutions. “They were selling a hygiene and sanitation division – we bought the company and used it as our launching pad to get into the market – so we started supplying,” she says. The first critical challenges they faced were to convince the market to buy from them and relying on a third party to do their manufacturing. At the time, they didn’t have the money to start their own plant. “We started by having a third-party company manufacture for us. We would give them our formula. “The first hurdle came from not having our own plant – so you are paying extra to hire somebody else to manufacture for you. The good thing is that we did get a loan from the IDC and funding from the Department of Trade and Industry under the BIS,” she says. She recalls that breaking into the market wasn’t easy, as companies didn’t trust them to deliver, but with time, they build a profile and reputation. READ MORE: Entrepreneurs Lita and Hombisa want South Africans to build their own empires Fortunately, early on, Kevali secured a contract with SAB to supply chemicals to two local plants. This has helped them ink deals with other businesses. In its first financial year, Kevali annual turnover was R36 million – this has since almost doubled to over R70 million.  