Wits University is about to appoint the first black woman to the position of Chancellor. The only thing that remains unclear is whether the post will be filled by businesswoman Dr Judy Dlamini or turnaround strategist Dr Anele Mngadi Dlamini and Mngadi have been shortlisted to take over from former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke, whose term comes to an end in November. Dlamini, a medical doctor, is the Executive Chairperson of the Mbekani Group, which she founded 22 years ago. Mbekani started out as an occupational health consulting company and has expanded into property, facilities management and luxury fashion. READ MORE: How to show leadership at work and the best ways to stand out She’s the 2016 recipient of the African Economy Builder Lifetime Achiever Award and this year, she’s set to be honoured by the Nelson Mandela University with an honorary doctorate. Dlamini is also the author of Equal but Different (Sifiso Publishers), compiled from research conducted for her doctorate in business leadership. It is based on interviews with some of the most influential women in business in the country – the likes of Phuti Mahanyele, Executive Chairperson of Sigma Capital, and Siza Mzimela, the first black woman to lead a commercial airline – on overcoming race, gender and class-related issues on their journey up the leadership ladder. Dlamini is a former Chairperson of JSE-listed pharmaceutical manufacturer and distributor Aspen Pharmacare and has sat on the boards of Anglo American, Discovery and Woolworths. READ MORE: What will it take to achieve real change for women in leadership? She holds MBChB, DOH, MBA and DBL degrees. Mngadi is a renowned turnaround strategist who specialises in economic development, financial management and law. She holds a MCom, an MBA and two doctorates – one in finance and another in public policy. She’s also the founder of the Emangadini Foundation, a non-profit organisation focused on social entrepreneurship and community empowerment.