A new Statistics SA (Stats SA) report has revealed the extent that SA women have normalised violence against them The Crime Against Women in South Africa report blows the lid on the shocking state of violence perpetuated against women, revealing that cases of femicide – the murder of an intimate partner – dramatically spiked by 117% since 2015. This is in stark contrast to general murder rates in the country which have been declining. Twice as many women in SA were victims of sexual abuse (250 in every 100 000 women) compared to men and the country’s rape rate is considered to be among one of the highest in the world. “Using the 2016-17 South African Police Service statistics, in which 80% of the reported sexual offences were rape, together with Stats SA’s estimate that 68,5% of the sexual offences victims were women, we obtain a crude estimate of the number of women raped per 100 000 as 138,” the report notes. READ MORE: How do you help abuse victims without causing further harm? “This figure is among the highest in the world. For this reason, some have labelled South Africa as the ‘rape capital of the world’.” The report also revealed that the number of women experiencing sexual offences has shot up by 53% between 2015 and 2017, with the number of cases jumping from 31 665 in 2015 to 70 813 last year. Perhaps the most shocking revelation to come out of the report is that fact that one in every 40 South African women believe that – under certain circumstances – it is totally justifiable for a man to hit a woman. The number of women agreeing with this sentiment almost equalling the number of men who hold the same belief, with 3,3% of men and 2,3% of women agreeing that it’s acceptable to hit a woman over something as trivial as burnt food. “An unexpected finding was that women had the same pattern of attitudes towards domestic violence as men. For both men and women, the highest percentage of individuals thought it was acceptable for a man to hit a woman if she argued with him and the lower percentage of individuals thought it was acceptable for a man to hit a woman if she burnt food,” the report states. READ MORE: The relationship between men and abuse According to the report, a man is justified in hitting his wife or partner if she neglects the children or if a woman argues with her husband. These two transgressions are considered the most serious issues. The concerning conclusion researchers draw is that even among those women who don’t believe it’s acceptable to hit a woman, these same women do however believe that there are certain circumstances where “a husband has the right to hit his wife”. Black men appear to be the worst offenders among their counterparts when it comes to attitudes pertaining to issues of domestic violence, the report found. “Black African men had the highest percentage of individuals who thought it was acceptable for a man to hit a woman, followed by white women.”