If you recently invested in a small business and are wondering how to get customers to buy your product or service, you will want to read this So, you’ve invested your savings or receive funding and have finally set up your business, but you are finding it very difficult to get customers to buy your product and grow your enterprise. This is what an anonymous reader wanted to know when she wrote in to Dear Destiny, our community reporting project, which focuses on finding answers to your questions. Business adviser, mentor and trainer from DoBetter.Business Rick Ed says there are many innovative ways to grow your enterprise. Ed believes the best way for enterprises with limited clientele to grow their business is to offer customers a product they want or need – even if they don’t know yet that they need it. READ MORE: [DEAR DESTINY] Here’s how to market your start-up on a shoestring “To do business, you need to sell your ‘product’ to customers (Steve Jobs sold us ‘a thousand songs in my pocket’ when he launched the iPod). As Steve Blank says: ‘Get out of the building’ and ask prospective customers what they want? That is to do the business market research,” he says. According to Ed, when you know what customers want, you can work out what they have in common through their market segment and it will save you the hassle of following traditional marketing routes. “People in a particular market segment have characteristics in common, like where they get their buying information.  Where does that segment get its market news?  Not everyone can best be persuaded to buy through social media,” he says. He says it is critical to understand that if a business doesn’t grow, it dies. To ensure that you are gradually growing, you can either grow the number of people who buy from you, or you can sell more product, or you can do both. Ed explains you could sell more of your products to your existing customer base, market penetration or you could develop your product by extending your current product range for your existing customers. “You could offer one of your existing products into a new market (maybe export) or you could introduce a new product into a new market and diversify in order to attract more customers.” Keeping track of your expenditure, cash-flow and your products is easy, according to him. He says more money must come into your business than goes out if you want to make a profit and grow. READ MORE: [DEAR DESTINY] What does the era of AI mean for our careers? “Just make sure that all the money your business spends is recorded, preferably on your bank statement.  A simple programme for South African entrepreneurs that doesn’t require accounting knowledge will make it easy for you.  SMEasy takes your bank statement and shows you what you have spent your money on and what money you have received.  Then it projects your cash situation, in a chart, for the next three months.  Now, you can clearly see how your business is growing,” Ed explains. He says of all the necessary character and personality traits of small enterprise owners and entrepreneurs, perhaps the most essential is guts.  Resilience is the capacity to fall, get up, learn and start again. The ability to innovate, to work smarter, will help the entrepreneur to be aware of opportunities in challenges and times of change. If you have a question you want our team to answer, submit it below:   