American rapper Talib Kweli has denied "bogus" accusations of sexual harassment in a series of tweets by a former collaborator Former collaborator Res, whose real name is Shareese Ballard, accused Talib of intentionally withholding music she recorded for the label and claimed the rapper held her career hostage after she rejected his advances. Following a heated Twitter battle, Kweli, who is also an entrepreneur, issued a statement on Tuesday denying Res’ sexual harassment allegations. According to him, Res was contractually obligated to deliver a 12-track album titled Reset following her 2013 album Refried Mac, but never presented a full album to Kweli or his label, Javotti Media. READ MORE: Morgan Freeman issues second apology after sexual harassment accusations He said in a statement seen by Billboard that Res was dropped from his label in 2013 for disrespecting his employees and for failing to turn in an album in which he invested. “I am not holding her music because she never turned any music in at all. In early 2014, Res started an IndieGogo campaign and sent a song featuring my vocals to fans without my permission as a reward,” Kweli said in the statement. “I asked her to stop using my verse, and she refused, so I sued her. Res then countersued, saying that I sexually harassed her. I find her claim to be dubious in nature. Bogus.” He added that the court had already dismissed three claims Res made against him over a year ago. “Res has not accepted this outcome, so she is using smear tactics. “Recently, she fired her lawyer in the other case, the one where she profited off of my music without my permission. So, now she is trying to use the #MeToo movement to bully me into dropping my lawsuit against her. I fully and categorically deny any allegation of sexual harassment,” he said. READ MORE: R Kelly sued by woman he allegedly infected with STD In a series of tweets, Res accused Kweli of trying to sleep with several artists. “I tried to be humble, but you letting a kiss that you didn’t get, Talib Kweli, keep my career on hold, and I dare you to say I’m not telling the truth, you know Gmail, Mr Green, I’ll wait,” she retweeted.    “Let’s talk the truth, my brother, @TalibKweli tell the world how you treat women you work with shall we discuss your approach to a good work environment I have emails like you do KING,” Res tweeted. Res also shared a screenshot of a 2014 email in which Kweli allegedly apologised for trying to kiss her in a pool in Puerto Rico, but the rapper denied any other wrongdoing. Following the tweets, Kweli replied on Instagram with a photo of the judge’s verdict in a sexual harassment claim that Res filed against him. He wrote that the judge dismissed all claims. Additional reporting by Billboard  