From midnight tonight, the price of petrol will go up by a whopping 82 cents per litre. Here's your guide to surviving the squeeze The petrol price is set to reach record highs for inland motorists, with the price of 95 unleaded petrol climbing to R15,79 and 93 unleaded reaching R15,54, while motorists at the coast can expect to pay R15,20 for 95 unleaded for the rest of June. With no end in sight to the rise in the global oil price and a weakened rand, economists are forecasting even greater pressure on motorists in July, with another steep increase in the price of petrol expected. Consumers will ultimately bear the brunt of the increase, with the cost of most monthly budget items set to rise as businesses pass on the increase. Taxi commuters will also feel the pain, with the National Taxi Alliance confirming this week that notices communicating taxi fare increases would be distributed to commuters next week and applicable immediately. Stretching your rand further It might be an annoying exercise, but don’t turn your nose down at collecting the specials booklets and weekly promotional offers in your local community newspaper to look for the best deals possible. Start shopping at different supermarkets if needed. READ MORE: How to save money at the grocery store Bulk-buying groceries and toiletries provides you with the biggest opportunity to save on items. Just because you live alone, it doesn’t mean you can’t buy in bulk – you just need to be smart about it. Why not club together with a friend or friends and split groceries – this way, you enjoy monetary savings without food going off before you have the chance to eat it. Pull the plug on any wasteful expenditure – switch to free online news sites to get your daily dose of what’s happening in the world. A DESTINY reader advises consumers to switch from plastic milk bottles to milk sachets, which are significantly cheaper. “We bought two glass bottles, keeping one in the fridge and a clean one in the cupboard, and we now buy milk in sachets. It’s much cheaper and milk doesn’t go off. It’s easy to store in the freezer if necessary and there’s less plastic waste to dispose of. We save at least R5 or R6 per two litres of milk,” she says. Ways to stretch fuel usage READ MORE: Changes that will help you stick to your budget