Research conducted by employer branding organisation Universum reveals the best employers in South Africa The most attractive employer rankings for 2018 reveals government and parastatals among the top-ranking employers. The research conducted to determine the most attractive employers for 2018 was released in a report on Monday. Universum interviewed over 45 000 university students and more than 22 000 young professionals from different sectors, including business and commerce, technology and engineering, law, natural sciences and healthcare. To provide insights on how talent evaluates employer brands, the survey covered a wide range of questions relating to future employment and career goals. The report also looks into the factors job-seekers consider, including salary expectations, goals – both short and long-term, expectations for training and development and corporate culture. READ MORE: IT companies again SA’s Best Employers Rankings of most attractive employers The South African Revenue Service (Sars), South African Reserve Bank (SARB), Transnet, Deloitte and Investec are the top five employers of choice for tertiary students, while professionals aspire to work at Google, South African Breweries (SAB), Investec, SARB and Sars in the business and commerce category. In the category of engineering and technology, Eskom, Sasol, Transnet, Google and BMW are most attractive employers for tertiary students, while Google, Sasol, Eskom, Microsoft and Transnet were the top five for young professionals. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) leads the pack in the category of natural sciences for tertiary students, followed by the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Department of Health and the National Laboratory Service (NHLS). The top five for professionals were the CSIR, DAFF, DST and the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform. The Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET), the SABC, Department of Home Affairs, Media24 and Google are the top five for tertiary students in the humanities, liberal arts and education sector, while professionals are attracted to the DHET, Google, Department of International Relations and Cooperation, Media24 and SABC. In the healthcare and health sciences category, the top five for tertiary students are the Department of Health, Mediclinic South Africa, Netcare, the NHLS and Discovery, while for professionals, the Department of Health, Mediclinic South Africa, Discovery, Netcare and Pfizer Laboratories were most attractive. READ MORE: Microsoft named SA’s best employer The most attractive employers in the law category for tertiary students are the Department of Justice and Correctional Services (DoJ), Legal Aid South Africa, Webber Wentzel Attorneys, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and law firm Adams & Adams. Professionals in this category are attracted to a similar set of employers, with the DoJ leading the pack, followed by the NPA, Legal Aid South Africa, Webber Wentzel and Google.