South African millennials are more likely to seek financial independence and personal fulfilment when compared to older generations, according to Old Mutual The survey was commissioned to better understand the financial behaviour of employed millennials when compared to older generations surveyed in the 2017 Old Mutual Saving and Investment Monitor. Better educated, tech-savvy and optimistic millennials – South Africans born between 1982-2000 are more likely to seek financial independence and personal fulfilment. MD of Old Mutual Unit Trusts, Elize Botha, revealed the findings of the survey which showed that 24% of millennials are currently invested in a unit trust compared to only 2% among older generations – with 57% of millennials saying they invested in a unit trust with the purpose of increasing their net worth and 47% saying they looked to invest to reach financial freedom. READ MORE: The millennial mindset The survey also revealed that 35% of millennials are saving money to pay back the debt, while only 13% of older generations are doing the same. Personal finance coach and founder of financial coaching firm Woman and Finance, Mapalo Makhu, said millennials are facing unique financial challenges that make them susceptible to debt. “Many first-generation middle-class South African millennials are playing ‘asset catch up’ – purchasing appliances and motors vehicles on credit – while caring for financially dependent relatives, other than their children, which creates a tension between the expectations of family and dreams millennials have for their own financial future.” The research further reveals that this generation is more likely to save money – in order of priority – towards  travel (37% versus 10%), their education (31% versus 4%), a motor car (32% versus 11%) or starting their own business (23% versus 3%) – than older generations. “This shift in priorities speaks to the bigger differences in the way millennials and older generations view money and the unique challenges they face,” says Botha. Makhu says unless millennials address their high levels of debt, they’ll struggle to reach their goal of financial freedom and independence. READ MORE: Happiness according to millennials Here are the stumbling blocks that millennials face on their journey to financial freedom: Personal loans often used to buy things that will be consumed, like appliances, clothes, or items that tend to depreciate over time. The survey revealed that 64% of millennials – compared to 14% among older generations – had a personal loan and 35% (versus 13%) of their income was spent on servicing the interest on the debt. “A rule of thumb is never to spend more than you earn,” says Botha. The first step in achieving financial freedom is to eliminate debt by applying the basic 50-30-20 rule of budgeting. Use 50% of your salary to cover your essential expenses. Allocate 20% of your salary towards your investments and personal goals – it’s recommended to put away 15% of your salary towards your retirement savings. Use the remaining 30% of your income for flexible spending. About 61% of millennials in the survey were saving money in a bank account, suggesting that millennials do not understand the difference between saving and investing. “Unlike saving – which is setting money aside with the intention of spending tomorrow – the second step to reach financial freedom is rather to invest and build wealth by creating a second source of income to supplement your salary,” says Botha. Another stumbling block is overspending – often utilising expensive credit –  to buy the things we absolutely “need” to appear successful. “What people don’t realise is that the real secret to financial freedom is to keep your living expenses as low as possible,” says Botha. “Without a clear goal, most people will find themselves spending rather than saving,” says Botha. “Every person is unique, and our relationship with money is often complex. An understanding of your intrinsic values is also essential to find the resolution to achieve financial freedom.” “Investing enough money to be financially free may feel like a ‘long shot,’ but the first step is always the hardest. Don’t be intimidated by your goal – start small,” says Botha.