There is no risk-free plan for a career change. But you can shape the odds by doing it properly Making a career change is a big decision that is not to be taken on a whim. Executive Coach Pat Roberts says it’s important that you understand what you are moving away from and why. “You also need to know what you would like to move towards and what benefit you believe you will gain from that move. Know what excites you about the new opportunity and what it would add to your life – beyond money,” she says. Roberts adds that you need to understand that the common factor in both your former and new careers is you. “If the problems you are facing or the things you don’t enjoy are caused by you, then they will crop up again in whatever new career you choose. Have a conversation with someone you trust, who knows you really well, about your plans so that you get another perspective about the reasons for the move.” READ MORE: [DEAR DESTINY] How to advance your banking career in your 30s What you should do before making the move: Research Before moving in a new career direction, do thorough research. What you imagine may not be how things actually work in the field. Learn the usual income levels at each level of experience in the new career. Is it a career that you’d stay in for a long time or just do for a few years and then change again? How much demand is there for people doing that kind of work? Read job advertisements Understand all the requirements. Read online CVs on LinkedIn of people who are successful in the career you are considering. Consider your personal values and how this new career direction aligns with your values. By reaching a deep understanding of the main players and the requirements, you will protect yourself with knowledge and perform better in interviews, if that is part of the process. Create a financial spreadsheet Do this to understand your current financial commitments and requirements so that you are clear on the minimum amount you need in order to maintain your lifestyle. Compare this with what you are likely to earn as a newbie in your new career. If there’s a shortfall, work out how you will manage financially until the income in your new career matches what you currently earn. READ MORE: How mentorship helped Gaynor MacArthur nurture her career Managing uncertainty If your new career means becoming an entrepreneur, consider your ability to manage risk, stress and uncertainty, which are normal when starting a new business venture. Are you good at handling those challenges or do you prefer the comfort of a salary cheque and someone else taking the lead? Do you have a robust business plan? Have you shared it with a range of people who know about starting a business and can assess how realistic and well-considered your plan is? Apply yourself When you’ve taken the step and you’re in a new organisation, put intentional effort into building relationships with every person who has any impact on your new role – at your level and at lower and more senior levels. Have a one-on-one conversation with each individual so that you understand what they expect of you on your role, how they will judge the standard of your work and how you can really impress them. “Whatever you decide, put your whole heart into the work you do. Only in that way will you achieve success and personal satisfaction,” concludes Roberts. 