Ivorian President Alassane Ouattara has alarmed Ivorians and the international community by backtracking on previous pledges to stand down in 2020, declaring instead that he could stand for election again if he wished If Ouattara were to do so, he would violate the two-term constitutional limit on presidencies in Cote d’Ivoire, infuriating the opposition. The Ensemble Pour la Démocratie et la Souveraineté (EDS) opposition grouping denounced the President’s statement as clearly provocative, adding that to stand in another election would be “unconstitutional and unacceptable”. If the President stood in the poll, he could run the risk of exacerbating political tensions, even stirring violence, and ruining his international image. But does he really intend to remain in power for another term, as he suggested in an interview published on 3 June, by the weekly Jeune Afrique? Or was this merely a political ploy? International darling It seems unlikely that Ouattara would seek to remain in office for another term. He has spent his presidency seeking to please the international community by promoting democracy and economic growth. In 2016, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) declared Cote d’Ivoire to be the fastest-growing economy in Africa, and annual growth remains high, at around seven percent. Ouattara is a former Deputy Director of the IMF and has a glowing image in the international sphere. Since becoming President, he has declared his intention to begin a process of reconciliation following the 2010-11 crisis, and he has introduced dozens of infrastructure projects, cutting an image of someone keen to follow the international liberal agenda. READ MORE: Robert Mugabe steps down He may not always have followed through on these promises, but that has gone largely unnoticed: he is the darling of West Africa. Remaining in power beyond a constitutional mandate is frowned upon by the international community. President Joseph Kabila’s efforts to hold on to power in the Democratic Republic of Congo have been met with stern disapproval from the United Nations, the United States and the European Union. This is not a situation that Ouattara would want to replicate. Much less would he wish to taint his legacy as the democratic President who returned growth and stability to Cote d’Ivoire. Remaining in power beyond 2020 would doubtless undermine this image, if not destroy it, depending on exactly how furious the opposition and the other members of the ruling coalition were. Arguably, Ouattara’s lack of real intention to stand in the 2020 election was underscored by the words he used in the interview with Jeune Afrique in which he broached the possibility of a third mandate. He said merely that he was able to stand in 2020 and that he would make his decision over the next two years, not that he planned to make an electoral bid. That could imply that he wants to leave the option open and raise uncertainty over his position, but perhaps not that he is actively seeking to remain in power. Political ploy? A furious opposition is far from what Ouattara seemingly had in mind when he made his ambiguous statement. He implied that remaining in power would be against his principles, but he would be willing to do it for the sake of peace and stability in Cote d’Ivoire. READ MORE: Jacob Zuma finally vacates the President’s seat As the election approaches, tensions have grown over who will stand from the ruling Rally of Houpouetists for Democracy and Peace (RHDP) coalition. The battle to be named as the successor has been exacerbated by calls from the other major coalition party, the Democratic Party of Cote d’Ivoire (PDCI), that it should be allowed to put forward a candidate on this occasion rather than Ouattara’s RDR. Disputes between the RDR and the PDCI have repeatedly broken out over the succession, increasing factionalisation of both parties, and now extremists calling for a total break-up of the coalition have emerged. Instability has been perpetuated by the failure to quell political divisions in the mutinying armed forces. Recurrent disputes between Ouattara and the head of the National Assembly and former leader of the Forces Nouvelles rebellion, Guillaume Soro, have aggravated the situation. Soro retains significant influence over the armed forces, and without his support, it would be extremely difficult to control the military. So, it is conceivable that Ouattara implied that he might stand in 2020 to reassert his authority and put an end to quarrelling within the ruling coalition over who would put themselves forward for election. He probably hoped that in eliminating the need for succession talks, he might bring his party and the PDCI closer together as well. READ MORE: Ivory coast bans skin-lightening products A more durable peace? Ouattara may have underestimated how divisive his move would be, and so far his plan seems to have backfired. Other political parties have expressed outrage at the suggestion that he would remain in power beyond his constitutional limit. The move is perceived as an attempt to hoard power to the exclusion of all other parties. Fears that his opponents could resort to violence to force him from office have only contributed to political instability. In a country where people fear and hate politicians in equal measure, a statement of intent to impose one’s will unconstitutionally on the populace is never likely to be well received. Cote d’Ivoire is only seven years out of a political crisis, and with tensions running high, if Ouattara were to remain in power, he could reignite civil conflict. The president’s declaration that he would put peace and stability above all else in taking a decision will be regarded bitterly by many who feel the president has failed to address problems that sparked the country’s conflict and has allowed underlying animosity to fester. The outpouring of anger over Ouattara’s announcement may already have changed the president’s mind over the wisdom on sowing uncertainty in his country in a bid to reassert himself and create a more durable peace. – Africa News Agency