We live in the age of "The Gram" and all things visual, but pictures aren't king when it comes to your CV Photos on CVs are all the rage in Europe and the trend seems to be picking up in the country, but recruitment specialists and career coaches are warning against it and the case they present is pretty compelling. “There’s no information on a picture that an employer can potentially use – unless it’s in a discriminatory way – to make an assessment of your suitability. What information are you going to extract from that photo that’s going to help you make a decision on my capability?” argues Phiona Martin, a career coach. “An employer should use the information of my qualifications, experience, the type of exposure I’ve had in order to make a decision with regard to my suitability for that employment.” It’s a distraction The first thing that a lot of job-seekers who attach a picture of themselves on their CV overlook, is the fact that whoever is tasked with evaluating CVs is likely to spend only a couple minutes reviewing your CV, so you don’t want your picture to become a distraction. READ MORE: Why one-size-fits-all CVs are a no-no Every second they spend on your CV should be spent reading about your qualifications and experience that makes you best suited for the job on offer. Experts say that if you’re not in an industry where your chances of employment are based solely on what you look like, then a photo is a big no-no. “If you’re in the entertainment industry or you’re a model or an actress, I would understand having your photo on your CV or professional profile. If your work is not related at all to how you look, then I don’t understand why it should be on a CV,” says Martin. It can create conscious and unconscious bias Attaching your photo can, on conscious and sub-conscious level, expose you to bias and discrimination. The fact that you’re black or have natural hair or dreadlocks or that you’re blonde or have a chiskop – all of these factors leave the door wide open to preconceived bias. “Regardless of age or demographic, there should be an awareness from CV senders that by attaching an image or photo, they will be subjecting themselves to increased bias,” says Debbie Goodman-Bhyat, CEO of executive search firm Jack Hammer. READ MORE: 5 things that could be ruining your CV “This bias may be ‘unconscious’ to the individual screening the CV, but there’s sufficient data to support the view that people make instant judgments based on how people look. This could work in ones favour or not. The point is, attaching photos increases opportunity for hiring decisions to be biased or discriminatory.” So what happens if a potential employer requests an image of you ahead of the interview? At the end of the day, don’t lose sight of the fact that your physical appearance has no bearing on your capability to do the work required, unless of course your profession is anchored in your looks. Martin says you’re well within your rights to ask the employer the purpose they require it for. If you’re a black person with a non-African sounding name applying for an affirmative action post, the experts say it’s advisable to stipulate your race in writing on your CV. 