For the first time in his 15-year career, renowned South African designer David Tlale has designed a signature accessories collection titled RED by David Tlale Showcasing the designer’s interpretation of different shades of the colour, RED by David Tlale consists of 10 unique looks and will be showcased at the Vodacom Durban July paddocks for VIP Vodacom Red guests, followed by a showing at the parade ring. The icon fashion designer will release this limited-edition collection in celebration of the Vodacom Durban July, following the announcement of his partnership with Vodacom Red. While renowned for his striking silhouettes and dramatic fashion designs, this is the first time that Tlale has designed an accessories line, with an elegant, limited-edition clutch bag created exclusively for Vodacom Red customers. READ MORE: David Tlale crowns new The Intern winner Only 1 000 black and red bags will be manufactured. Each is personally marked, 1/1000, and will be gifted to qualifying new Vodacom Red customers throughout June and July 2018. “Striking out into accessories has been an exciting new development for me and my vision is to make women feel and look sexier, carrying this one-of-a-kind clutch bag,” says Tlale, adding that he went for a minimalist design, with an emphasis on the bag’s fabric for effect.  “The aim was to also have the bag used in multiple ways and fashion styles. It is a multi-purpose bag that can be dressed up or down, depending on the wearer’s mood or tone of an event.” Made in South Africa, with all materials sourced locally, each RED by David Tlale bag comes in textured black Nappa leather with red trimming and a metal zipper, while the interior is beautifully lined with red canvas. The bag will become even more exquisite with time as the leather ages and captures each wearer’s lifestyle and persona, says Tlale. “Vodacom Red is for the individual who expects more and we couldn’t think of anyone better than David Tlale to collaborate with in presenting an exceptional showcase of South African design at the Vodacom Durban July. It’s a truly exciting partnership,” says Michelle van Eyden, head of Vodacom sponsorships. READ MORE: Win a Vodacom Durban July package, with David Tlale, worth R70k With his legacy of lavish beauty, RED by David Tlale will, however, stay faithful to the opulent designs and enticing silhouettes that have come to define Tlale’s career, all of which will be revealed when the collection debuts at the Vodacom Durban July Main Stage, followed by a private showcase at the paddocks for VIP Vodacom Red guests. “Red is shorthand for passion, strength and power, yet remains modern and feminine. In this collection, I’ve played with various hues and fabrics which speak an entirely new language. Each look will showcase the story one tells when wearing this, the boldest of all the colours,” says Tlale.    