Lean management in the workplace empowers employees to think and execute tasks independently Following a successful lean management initiative in the public health sector, we spoke to Anton Grutter from Lean Institute Africa about this principle of management. He says they have been doing different kinds of projects in hospitals for more than 10 years. “There are many kinds of projects that we have done and more importantly, support of the management to become a transformed organisation in the lean management system.” He explains that some of the biggest challenges in the public health sector are patients waiting to see a doctor and arriving late to the pharmacy in order to get their medication, which forces them to return to the hospital the following day. READ MORE: Africa making better strides in championing women leadership “Waiting time has been a big issue.  As one of the department’s strategic objectives, we have done a lot of work in reducing waiting time,” he says. According to Grutter, lean management is a principle that leaders of organisations or businesses can apply to ensure their employees are working effectively. He says in typical management systems, you have executives leading from the top down, telling employees what to do with a compliance mindset. Lean management is a different way of working. The workforce is developed and empowered to solve their own problems. “That doesn’t happen overnight – you need a decent kind of management system to deal with this. At every level of the organisation, you need to measure key tasks. “In addition to the system, it requires a decent management style. As a manager in a lean management system, I don’t give orders, I don’t boss people around – what I do is to develop my people in order for them to become problem-solvers themselves,” says Grutter. He indicates that if you simply issue commands, you switch employees’ brains off and they go into compliance mode – they will do whatever you say, even if they know it’s not the best way of doing things. “As a lean leader, you develop your people by asking them questions and your management style instead of giving orders. It becomes a style that involves you asking questions, especially when you are coaching someone to become a good problem-solver,” he says. This allows the manager to switch employees’ brains on and develop their thinking skills, which allows for the delegation of more responsibilities. This means that as a manager, you spend less time ordering your employees around. Getting to this “promised land” is no easy task, however, and requires an organisational transformation. “That is what we call the lean transformation journey. It requires strong leadership and commitment. It is not a quick fix and takes years. We have to prepare ourselves over the long term, not just via a quick lean training workshop,” says Grutter. READ MORE: Strategies to position you for a leadership role A senior leader, like the GM or the CEO, needs to model the behaviour they expect from their employees by doing what they expect their employees to do. “It starts with humble enquiries, asking questions and helping people develop a lean-thinking mindset,” he says.   