Perseverance, innovation, hard work and an unwavering commitment to give customers the best possible service have been the keys to the success of YuppieChef South African kitchen and homeware retailer Yuppiechef will launch a second physical store in Cape Town CBD, just nine months after the first brick-and-mortar one was opened in Willowbridge, Tyger Valley in the Mother City. The first store was opened in response to the key insight that South Africans enjoy the physical shopping experience – browsing, getting advice, the immediacy of purchase, seeing and being seen. The in-store experience has also boosted Yuppiechef’s registry service, allowing couples to select items for their online registry, in-store. “Shoppers want to start looking at products online, and then come into a store to make a final decision before walk away with their purchase,” says Yuppiechef co-founder and MD Andrew Smith. The store is set to open on July 1. This is also prompted by the feedback they received from their Willowbridge. Customers insist that they are enjoying the ability to both ‘click and collect’ as well as view the product in-store, while still taking delivery at their homes or offices. READ MORE: SA’s online shopping trends “The reaction to our first physical store has surpassed our initial expectations and the business has seen steady growth over the past six months.  We have recently embarked on a major strategic shift, from trading as an e-commerce site to a move into ‘omni-channel’ retail. We want customers to experience our brand on their terms, whether that’s online, on the phone or in a store,” says Smith. The Yuppiechef in-store experience has been dramatically optimised through technology linked to the online offering. Shoppers are able to use their own mobile phones to scan QR codes in store, which leads directly to product information, as well as reviews from other shoppers. With the touch of a button, they’re able to make a decision on a purchase based on the experience of others, and the in-depth product information available on the store’s website. “Our first store has been incredibly well-supported, and customer feedback has been very positive, so opening a second store felt like the natural next step. We wanted to wait to see what the reaction was like, but it’s been an easy decision to make. We made most of the big decisions on design, layout and operations in 2017, but we have worked hard to make improvements and iterations to the Gardens Centre store.” Yuppiechef-designed software for in-store point-of-sale devices allows transactions to take place anywhere in the store. This means no queues and faster service, particularly in busy times. Customers are able to browse on the device and order Yuppiechef items which might not be in the store, as well as quickly process returns or collect items ordered online. READ MORE: Yuppiechef is opening its first physical store He says the intention is to expand the footprint further, but the details of that expansion are unclear at this point. “Our focus is on making sure our customers, both online and in our physical stores, get the best possible service and experience.” Smith’s advice to entrepreneurs who are planning to expand their retail footprint: “Part of our success at Yuppiechef has been that we’ve been in the right place at the right time, offering brands and products that people wanted and couldn’t get anywhere else. “We also had the skills and experience to build e-commerce, which was difficult and expensive for traditional retailers, and largely underestimated and ignored by them. But this wouldn’t have been enough on its own to win over a sceptical market who were very uncertain about shopping online. “This move to physical retail is the next step in our journey, but it’s taken us 11 years to get to this point. Perseverance, innovation and hard work have been key for us, as well as an undying commitment to the best possible customer service.”  