Zama Mkosi has abruptly resigned as CEO of the National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF), following a forensic investigation into allegations of mismanagement, waste of funds and other issues Mkosi is out with immediate effect and is being replaced by Shadrack Bokaba as acting CEO for the time being, “in the interest of organisational stability”. There’s been no word from Mkosi or any reasons given as to why she’s left the NFVF abruptly, but she resigned on 27 May. The NFVF says it will start the process of looking for a new CEO. Mkosi was appointed NFVF CEO in February 2012. Over the past few years the NFVF has been embroiled in various allegations of money-wasting and mismanagement of funds by senior executives, seriously damaging the credibility and reputation of the NFVF, which has seen its relationship with the TV and film industry and the media deteriorate. READ MORE: Zama Mkosi on her love for the film and TV industry The allegations of mismanagement include overseas trips and expense accounts for foreign travel in luxury hotels with outrageous travel demands – money meant to fund film and TV projects in SA – but also splurging on local trips to Sun City. Forensic investigation ordered after complaints The bulk of NFVF staffers in an open letter complained about working conditions and provided a litany of allegations of corruption, implicating Mkosi, the NFVF’s CFO and NFVF council members. It led to the Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa ordering a forensic investigation into the NFVF, the findings of which the department has so far refused to make public, although they were delivered to the government in March 2018. The NFVF, which continues to organise expensive overseas trips, also continues to be criticised for the badly organised and low quality of the televised South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas), the NFVF’s supposed showpiece, which keeps being marred by in-fighting, unhappy producers and production company boycotts. At the Saftas, held in March and televised on SABC2, Mkosi, an executive producer, used the platform to lash out at the media. Alluding to the allegations of corruption, mismanagement and mismanagement of funds inside the NFVF, Mkosi told viewers how difficult it was to find funding for the Saftas due to the “ongoing bad press” the organisation was receiving. READ MORE: CRL flexes its muscles over Inxeba and force concessions from NFVF The NFVF has confirmed Mkosi’s resignation with immediate effect and announced the appointment of Joy Mawela as the Head of Industry Development, Training and Marketing and Mbali Buthelezi as CFO, effective 1 June and 1 July respectively. “In the meanwhile, the NFVF council has commenced implementation of the findings of the forensic report that was commissioned by Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa, with regard to the various allegations of impropriety at the NFVF,” the body said. “Equally important to the NFVF council is the desire to improve staff morale and brand reputation of the NFVF, amid all the negative publicity that has engulfed the NFVF in the recent past.”