As today marks World Refugee Day, we look at some of the prominent people you may not know were refugees According to the UN, thousands of families are forced to flee their lives due to violence in their countries and the theme for this year is “Now More Than Ever, We Need to Stand with Refugees”. This day was established by the UN on 4 December 2000 as a way to raise awareness of global refugees. The event is observed in over 100 countries, with the UN Refugee Agency, government officials, celebrities, non-profit aid organisations and others taking part in events to recognise the day. UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said in a statement that as conflicts emerge, persist and deepen, 68,5 million people are uprooted around the world. READ MORE: Europe’s refugee crisis – the facts and figures “Nine out of 10 are in their own countries or countries next door, and the impact is massive – on refugees themselves, and on the communities that open their doors to them. Now, more than ever, taking care of refugees must be a global – and shared – responsibility. It’s time to do things differently,” said Grandi. Here are some examples of famous people who were refugees. Iman, the American-Somali model, beauty entrepreneur and writer, who is renowned for her modelling career and her philanthropic work, fled Somalia with her family as a child. According to Sky News, the widow of David Bowie was forced to flee the war-torn country with her family in 1972 and moved to Kenya. Sudanese-born British professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers Luol Ajou Deng fled his country as a five-year-old. The basketball star fled war-torn Sudan to settle in London. He has since become a household name in the USA. He is a two-time NBA All-Star and was named in the NBA All-Defensive Second Team in 2013. Sky News reports that British rapper M.I.A, whose Sri-Lankan father led a Tamil independence movement, fled the island nation as a child, moving with her family to India and later, England. The producer and songwriter reportedly began her career in 2000 as a visual artist, filmmaker and designer in West London, before beginning her recording career in 2002. The 24-year-old footballer Saido Berahino, who plays for English championship club Stoke City, reportedly left his native Burundi when he was only 10 years old. According to Sky News, the striker’s father was killed in a civil war. READ MORE: Former refugee becomes first Somali-American legislator Berahino reportedly received political asylum in the UK and credits football with helping him integrate into English society. He joined West Bromwich Albion at the age of 11 and became a professional seven years later. Additional source: Sky News  