Molo Mhlaba is a low-cost Montessori school that's revolutionising township education through a special focus on equipping young girls with science, technology, engineering, arts/design and maths (Steam) skills It’s the brainchild of Rethabile Sonibare and Athambile Masola, Directors at the Thope Foundation, which evolved from an after-school coding programme into the idea to establish the first pan-African private school for girls in the heart of Khayelitsha – run by black women for black girls. “For so long, we’ve been told our own can’t do for itself and that all the good things and better things happen in middle-class, white suburbia. We want to debunk that myth and say we can make a model that works and sustain it on our own by people who look like the girls we serve,” Sonibare explains. What makes the school unique is its approach to learning, which starts with an extended school day of nine-and-a-half hours and is inspired by the Montessori approach to learning, which is deeply rooted in independent and enquiry-based education.  A single class contains girls aged between three and six and the thinking is that the younger children are continuously learning from their older counterparts and it’s driven by inquisitive learning. “The Steam component has got to do with robotics and coding and very strong maths and science focus. We’re also bilingual so one of our strategies for learning is that it’s project-based and enquiry-based learning,” she says. “Children do projects, they learn project management, planning, execution, implementation, evaluating and we do that through robotics and coding. It’s also the idea that the skills they’re learning today are careers they can one day go in to.” Funded by a crowdfunding campaign, Molo Mhlaba almost didn’t come into existence at all after the building Masola and Sonibare had secured for leasing through the City of Cape Town was torched in a community protest in August last year – four months before the scheduled launch.  Less than two weeks before opening its doors in January this year, Sonibare says they were still fitting windows and doors onto the building and ferociously working to refurbish the damage caused by the fire. While this setback proved challenging, she says the most challenging aspects of starting the school was finding teachers who they could train in the educational philosophy the founders wanted to adopt, as well as mobilising resources . It started with four children in January and now the school has 38 learners in a class of children (aged three to six) and the growth has happened purely by word of mouth. Impressively, it also boasts a waiting list of 13 children who they were unable to take in due to space. Sonibare says they are currently in the process of finding and training another teacher with the intention of starting a second age three-to-six class. Next year they plan to introduce the next age cohort (age six-to-nine) and roll out a class every over the next three to four years until it becomes a fully fledged primary school, representing all ages.   All teachers at the school are black women and that’s an issue very close to the founder’s heart. “We believe that representation is important. If we’re going to be serving black girls, the teachers need to be black,” she says unashamedly. While school fees are just R400 per month, it’s an amount that is out of reach for many households in the township and that’s why they introduced different funding models for people to sponsor a child’s education. Over the next 10 years, the ladies plan on rolling out 10 schools in townships in the Eastern Cape, the Free State, Northern Cape and the North West.