Power utility Eskom said on Friday it would implement scheduled power interruptions, or load shedding for a second day to relieve pressure on the grid as it grapples with sabotage linked to a wage strike “Eskom commenced with Stage 1 load shedding at 11.29am today (15 June 2018). We anticipate that this will continue until 9 pm tonight,” the utility said. “This is due to the impact of the current illegal protest action by some Eskom employees at various sites over wage increases.” It said it was working with all the relevant stakeholders to keep its plant operating optimally, but there was a high risk of load shedding over the weekend. “Eskom calls on all consumers to assist by reducing their electricity consumption by switching off geysers, electric heating, pool pumps, and all non-essential appliances throughout the day,” it added. Eskom has blamed the loadshedding on failures and sabotage at power plants amid a bitter standoff with trade unions over wage increases. Wage talks collapsed after the utility said it could not afford any salary hikes this year. Unions are demanding a 15 percent hike. READ MORE: Gordhan calls for resumption of Eskom wage talks On Friday said it had obtained a court interdict prohibiting the intimidation of workers and contractors who are not part of the strike, as well as the hijacking of coal trucks and the sabotaging of the power utility’s electricity infrastructure. The main opposition DA urged Eskom to give more details of the alleged damage and inform the public whether there would be further scheduled power interruptions. “Eskom must urgently brief the public and detail exactly why load shedding has become necessary tonight, what acts of sabotage have occurred and where, and if load shedding will become the norm once more,” the party’s public enterprises spokeswoman Natasha Mazzone said in a statement. Mazzone said the renewed load shedding was clearly the result of years of corruption that led to losses of billions of rands at state-owned enterprises. – African News Agency