It will take at least three years for the City of Cape Town to deal with the impact of climate change and the  drought on the city, Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille said on Tuesday Welcoming delegates to Adaptation Futures 2018, the world’s leading conference on climate change adaptation taking place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) this week, the Mayor said the city had to learnt many lessons when it came to climate-change adaption. “When we talk about climate change, what we have learnt in the City of Cape Town is that what really matters and how you respond to climate change are in the actions that you are taking. You have to walk the talk – it’s no use complaining about the impact of climate change. Immediate action is needed,” she said. “One thing that I can tell you that we have learnt in terms of adaptation is that we had to reduce our water demand and usage. In January 2016, as a collective, the City of Cape Town used over 1,1 billion litres of water per day. As we speak today, in 2018, we have been able to bring down that water consumption to just over 500 million litres of water per day, so the opportunity out of the drought is that Cape Town will emerge as one of the most water-resilient cities in the world because of how we had to adapt and mitigate all of the challenges.” READ MORE: Water: The new gold She said South Africa, in February, had launched a successful global water fund model, which seeks to introduce a public-private partnership in innovation financing to conserve watersheds and water resources in Africa. “We are also very proud that in February this year, we have launched in South Africa, the first water fund right here in Cape Town. This fund project is based on the successful global water fund model, which seeks to introduce a public-private partnership in innovation financing to conserve watersheds and also water resources in Africa,” said De Lille. The Mayor also stressed the importance of conservation programmes in job creation. “For the past 17 years, we have had a water conservation programme that has created 1 000 jobs. We trained plumbers and let them loose in our communities to fix leaks and repair pipes. If we had not done that for the past 15 years, we would have actually found the drought to be far worse than it is now and I must also say that it was in 2015 when we received an international award for our water conservation from the C40 cities,” said De Lille. READ MORE: Water crisis pushes Cape Town property growth values down The fifth edition of the Adaptation Futures conference, taking place for the first time in Africa, is being attended by over 1 200 delegates from 87 countries and more than 230 organisations, ranging from world-renowned universities, city and regional governments to international funding bodies and NGOs. De Lille said “climate change brings great uncertainty in our governance on a daily basis, so it does impact the way we do things,” adding that one has to begin to change the methodology of planning, thinking, and disrupt the old way of thinking and the way of responding to disasters. She told delegates that the City of Cape Town had introduced a scenario plan called the “New Normal” to deal with the impact of the drought. “The New Normal meant that the City of Cape Town would now permanently be dealing with drought, and so, therefore, we had to plan to respond. The rain that you are seeing now while you are in Cape Town is very little,” she said, urging Capetonians to continue with water-saving efforts. READ MORE: City of Cape Town reduces daily water quota to 50l per person “When we were in this crisis, we could call on the network of Mayors around the world from C40, the  global Parliament of Mayors, the Cabinet of Mayors, because, in a crisis like this, there is no time to go by trial and error. You, unfortunately, have to do it right the first time, and that is where we could tap into the valuable lessons and the leadership that we have seen around the world.” De Lille further acknowledged all the Mayors in attendance from the USA. “I really hope that you will find more solutions, more innovation, so that we can learn and get some good lessons from this conference. We must have more innovative ways to deal with adaptation and as the City of Cape Town, we really hope to learn, we are open to wanting to share best practices with you and I’m sure you can also learn from the Cape Town experience,” she said.