Just discovered you're not earning the salary you deserve? Here's what to do next First of all, take a deep breath and keep calm. Although it might be disconcerting to discover that a colleague with a similar job description and responsibilities earns much more than you, don’t despair, because all is not lost. Before you go marching into your boss’s office demanding a raise, career coach Gerda de Villiers says you need to take the time to do your homework and verify that the information you have is correct. Things to verify include making sure that the person doesn’t have a better qualification or additional responsibilities of which you’re unaware . Also be cognisant of the fact that some colleagues do embellish details and it could turn out they actually don’t earn as much as they claim. Co-workers have a tendency to pass along unfounded office gossip. Check out sites like Payscale to get industry benchmarks that give you an idea of where you fall on the scale. READ MORE: 4 signs that you’re being underpaid Confronting your manager without verifying this information first could backfire badly. De Villiers also advises against confronting the colleague in question because, after all, it’s got nothing to do with them and is really an issue between them and your employer. What you can, however, do – once you’ve established as fact that you’re being underpaid – is schedule a “career path” meeting with your boss. “If you want to approach your employer, first think about improving your skills. Another thing you can do is some research to see how your salary compares with the market average, taking into consideration your location, as this can play a role in determining your salary. It’s unlikely that an employer will give you a higher salary just because you say it’s the fair thing to do. Be ready to do more work to get higher pay,” de Villiers advises. READ MORE: The dos and don’ts of salary negotiation Once you get your meeting, make sure you are prepared to demonstrate that you are indispensable to the company and highlight all the ways in which you add value to the organisation. Another good idea is to arrive armed with market-related salary data on hand to show your boss you know what you’re talking about. It helps to understand when your company finalises budgets, as any requests for a raise will need to be budgeted for and you’re unlikely to get an unexpected increase. Before you negotiate a higher salary, be prepared to leave your job if you don’t get what you want. Your manager may not be able to meet your salary demands. “Ultimately, if you’ve evaluated everything and still believe you’re underpaid, start shopping your CV around. Sometimes the only way to get what you believe you deserve is to get an offer that proves it.”  