The day has finally arrived. Starting today, you can begin earning points towards your ticket to the star-studded Global Citizen Festival Between today and 1 December, Global Citizen organisers will be holding four lucky dip-style ticket draws that will enable you to use points earned for doing good deeds to enter the raffle and stand a chance of winning a pair of tickets. You’ll need to earn a minimum of 23 points to be eligible for the ticket draws and you have until 17 September to rake in enough points to enter the first draw. Winners will have 72 hours to claim their tickets after being notified. The next round of ticket draw dates and the number of points you need to earn to be entered into the draw will be announced in coming weeks. “If you didn’t win a ticket, you can keep taking action to earn enough points to enter the next ticket draw, which starts the next day, and you can keep entering the draws until you win,” event organisers say on its website. READ MORE: Beyoncé is finally coming to town! If you’re desperate to get your hands on the hottest (free) tickets in town, you’ll need to download the Global Citizen app or visit the website to take action by tweeting, signing petitions or sending an email to express your support for a particular issue. It can be anything from funding for girls’ education to advocating for more people to have access to clean drinking water – any initiative that positively impacts and empowers communities. Some 70% of festival tickets are free and can only be earned, while the remaining tickets – which were up for sale to corporates – have already been sold out. In the coming months, there will also be opportunities to earn tickets through offline actions and community service. The Global Citizen Festival is set to take place in Jozi on 2 December and features an all-star list of local and international performers including Beyoncé, Jay-Z, Cassper Nyovest, D’banj, Ed Sheeran, Eddie Vedder, Femi Kuti, Pharrell Williams & Chris Martin, Sho Madjozi, Kacey Musgraves, Tiwa Savage, Usher, and Wizkid. SA’s golden boy and funnyman Trevor Noah has been confirmed as the event’s host and he’ll be joined by Dave Chappelle, Nomzamo Mbatha Naomi Campbell, Sir Bob Geldof, Gayle King, Bonang Matheba, Tyler Perry and Forest Whitaker as co-hosts. “It is an honour to be a part of the Global Citizen Festival event celebrating the life and legacy of Nelson Mandela,” Noah said. READ MORE: Pharrell Williams to perform in SA at Global Citizen Festival “I am where I am today living as a free South African because of much of what he did and so I’m beyond excited to be teaming up with so many others to pay tribute to the man in his home country.” K Naomi, Lucas Radebe, Nandi Madida, Pearl Thusi, Somizi, and Zakes Bantwini have also been added to the bill as Global Citizen: Mandela 100 Advocates to support the campaign against extreme poverty. Inspired by Madiba’s call to end poverty, the Mandela 100 campaign hopes to raise $1 billion in global investments for the most marginalised communities in the world, with $500 million to be set aside to impact the lives of 20 million women and girls globally. The festival’s seven Global Goals include tackling poverty, hunger, health issues, education challenges, girls and women issues, water and sanitation and ocean pollution. The festival is being staged by the Motsepe Foundation, with Patrice Motsepe and Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe serving as executive producers.