Sibusiso "DJ Sbu" Leope is taking his energy drink from the streets to Total garage convenience stores nationwide DJ Sbu was famously fired from Metro FM for advertising his energy drink MoFaya during the radio station’s music awards in 2015. Back in those days, selling his energy drink in commercial stores such as Checkers and Pick ‘n Pay outlets was difficult and he needed all the advertising he could get. These days, however, he’s riding high on an entrepreneurial wave. MoFaya is doing much better than when he launched it. READ MORE: Back to basics: DJ Sbu sells Mofaya on Jozi streets In a tweet he labelled “breaking news”, Leope announced that he had signed a deal to distribute his energy drink to all Total convenient stores nationwide. This comes a year after he scored a distribution deal with Pick ‘n Pay, one of South Africa’s largest retailers. When he first launched the beverage, the DJ faced a lot of resistance in the market to the point that he had to literally take to the streets to sell the product. In an interview with MentorFeed, Leope details his entrepreneurship struggles and how he bounced back from being fired from Metro FM. “I always speak to people who have been retrenched or have their backs against the wall and don’t know how to come back. I always say, if you’ve been retrenched, fired, you’ve lost your job, it’s not really the end of the road. You can always bounce back,” he said. He said as much as it was painful to get fired from Metro FM, he was able to turn a negative into a positive by starting his online radio station Massiv Metro. The station turned a year old in June and employs about 40 young people. READ MORE: DJ Sbu expands his business empire “And MoFaya, when they fired me for that reason (unauthorised advertising), if I had stopped, it wouldn’t be selling 2 million cans today, it wouldn’t be sold by 3 000 young people nationwide, who make a living out of it. So basically, the message is, whatever situation that you’re going through that you might see as negative right now, there’s always the other side of the coin. It’s all about perspective, change your perspective and how you see things. That’s the type of person that I am. I can look back and say: ‘Oh, I remember I was fired at Metro and now I’ve got my own Massiv Metro.'”  