The former model and entrepreneur is slowly making a comeback after the Israel controversy that saw her lose endorsements and face death threats After being denied entry into Israel and being banned from visiting the country for 10 years, Naidoo is trying to reclaim her previously squeaky clean image. Her recent Instagram posts suggest she is trying to make a comeback after the disastrous post she shared on the same social media platform, which led to a PR disaster. READ MORE: Shashi Naidoo barred from entering Israel Over a month ago, Naidoo faced a backlash when she referred to Gaza as a “s**thole” when responding to a question from one of her Instagram followers. She had posted a picture with DJ Black Coffee – who himself faced a backlash when he performed in Israel – when someone started a debate with her regarding the Middle East situation. Within hours, she was lambasted for her comments which she later said were not her own views, as she was not knowledgeable about the situation. She admitted copying and pasting a response from a friend. What ensued were weeks of dropped endorsement deals, death threats, apologies on social media and  press conferences. As part of the damage-control measures, she pledged to visit the embattled country on a “fact-finding mission” so she could better understand what was going on. The trip was organised by  Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) South Africa. However, she was turned back as she landed – after being warned not to make the trip. READ MORE: SA Jewish board slams attacks on Sashi Naidoo She took a social media hiatus, but appears to have recovered, judging by her recent Instagram posts. In one of her Instagram posts, she shares nine things she didn’t know a month ago. On the list was that she didn’t know that Palestine was divided into Gaza and the West Bank or that Palestinians formed the largest refugee population in the world. “I did not know that Palestine was such an important issue for South Africans. I now know that the Palestinian issue is about basic human rights, which we as South Africans hold close to our hearts. I did not know that my pursuit of knowledge would attract the label of “terrorist” or “threat” from the government of Israel. I now know that any person who has a different opinion to that of the State of Israel could be seen as a ‘threat’,” she wrote. The questions is, will she ever be able to regain her former public image?  