A study by the University of Pretoria (UP) shows a strong association between crime and climate in Tshwane A study published in The Conversation used data and statistical analysis to find any relations between extreme weather conditions and crime in Pretoria. With a specific interest on whether the magnitude of crime changes depends on extreme weather conditions, notably temperature and rainfall, the study sought out if extremely hot days or high-rainfall days experience higher or lower rates of violent, property or sexual crime. The study, conducted by UP’s Department of Geography, Geoinformatics and Meteorology, also sought to find out whether crime occurs in different places on extremely cold days than it does on really hot days. The research findings by Gregory Breetzke indicate a strong association between temperature and criminal activity. That is, as the temperature goes up, so too, does the crime. Their findings demonstrate that the amount of violent, sexual and property crime in the City of Tshwane is significantly affected by temperature and, to a lesser extent, rainfall. READ MORE: South Africans don’t feel safe in their neighbourhoods, says Stats SA The level of violent, sexual and property crime was higher on hot days compared to cold or random temperature days. Violent crimes increased by 50% on hot days compared to very cold days. Sexual crimes increased by 41% and property crime by 12%. Violent and sexual crimes in Tshwane also decreased on high-rainfall days. Surprisingly, property crime was found to increase slightly on heavy rainfall days, though only by 2%. The researchers also found that the spatial distribution of violent and property crime differ on days by temperature and rainfall. “There is a considerable change in the way that particularly violent and property crime is spatially distributed in Tshwane, depending on the weather conditions. We also found that the distribution of sexual crime did not seem to differ significantly by temperature or rainfall.” Researchers obtained climate data for the City of Tshwane from the SA Weather Services and for a five-year period and also crime data for the same period. The crime data was obtained from the South African Police Services’ Crime and Information Analysis Centre. The data included the geographical location of each crime; the date and time of day that each crime was committed and the specific type of crime committed. READ MORE: SA crime stats: numbers you need to know A total of 1,36 million crimes were reported in the five-year period across 32 different categories. All crime was then categorised into either violent, sexual or property crimes, before they calculated a total number of crimes per type per day. Researchers insist more research is needed to confirm these findings and determine if the results can be generalised to other urban areas in South Africa.  