Cult American actress and producer Issa Rae is headlining a women's empowerment fest in Jozi later this month It’s been conceived as a women’s empowerment summit with a difference. The high-wattage speakers will be engaging with the audience in the guise of a masterclass with US actress, writer and producer Issa Rae headlining a list of experts in their fields. The In Good Company Experience is a mix of impactful keynote addresses, well-curated panel discussions, one-on-one interviews and live music. The theme for the one-day conference on 28 August in Joburg is “Building the Africa of Tomorrow” and panels will have strong gender and diversity themes.  “Achieving gender diversity is imperative for all of us, it’s not just an issue to be solved and championed by women,” says Jabulile Gwala, founder of In Good Company. “It affects us all, hence we found it important for us to create a space where both women and men can get together and start ideating for solutions to change the status quo. We live in a mixed-gender society and therefore the conversation cannot happen with women alone,” she adds. Besides Rae, the In Good Company Experience has enlisted Thandiswa Mazwai and Enhle Mbali Maphumulo as speakers (see the complete list of speakers and performers below). The event will also pay special tribute to a South African icon with an honorary award on the night. The event will be emceed by award-winning actress, philanthropist, humanitarian and all-round women’s advocate Nomzamo Mbatha. Entertainment powerhouse Unathi Nkayi will be performing some of her new work for guests. The event starts at 4pm on 28 August at the Hilton Hotel in Sandton, Johannesburg. Tickets cost R1 250 each and are available at: https://blaclyon.nutickets.co.za *Ndalo Media is a media partner to the In Good Company Experience. It is also being held in association with DStv and Kaya FM. THE SPEAKERS Issa Rae This American-based actress, writer, producer, and web series creator first attracted our attention with her hit YouTube series Awkward Black Girl. She gained further recognition for creating, writing and starring in the HBO TV series Insecure. She later received two Golden Globe Award Nominations for Best Actress. Rae stands for women and women working together in all she does. She is expected to talk about the critical importance of connectivity within the black girl society and – hopefully – what her blueprint is with regard to breaking boundaries. Thandiswa Mazwai Mazwai is one of the most celebrated and respected local musicians of the contemporary African generation. She began her career in 1998 with Bongo Maffin, one of the iconic and pioneering bands of the kwaito era. After six award-winning albums, she launched a solo career. Zabalaza (2004), her debut project, reached double-platinum status and won numerous awards and her critically acclaimed second album Ibokwe (2009) reached gold status a few weeks after its release. Her third solo studio album is Belede (2016), a poetic collection of South African jazz standards and protest anthems from the 1950s and 1960s. Mazwai has never been afraid to speak her mind and guests can look forward to a powerful presentation that will take in her musical mastery and acute social and cultural observations. Enhle Mbali Maphumulo Maphumulo burst onto the South African silver screen as a captivating actress, garnering memorable roles in series like Tshisa, Broken Vows and Rockville. Other appearances have connected her to huge audiences through TV series such as iNkaba, My Family, 7de Laan, Rhythm City, Moferefere Lenyalong, Soul City and Those Who Can’t Teach. Her charisma and savvy use of social media (alongside her beautiful union with DJ superstar Black Coffee) has firmly positioned her as one of South Africa’s most popular media personalities. She’s also made waves for her fashion labels, including two sold-out fashion collections. Greg Maloka, Managing Editor, Kaya FM Starting out as a programmer for FM radio, Maloka used his skills to master the creation of a myriad of content for multiple platforms. As founder member and ultimately GM of popular youth radio station YFM (1997-2004), he, together with other leading creative practitioners such as Oskido (Kalawa Records), led the growth of SA dance music. In his current role, Maloka has led a team that has consistently grown the revenue and shareholder value of the business. Xoliswa Daku, CEO of DCI Holdings Daku is the CEO of DCI Holdings and Daku Group of Companies, focusing on property development, construction and facilities management. The firm boasts a portfolio or more than R600 million. This lawyer-turned-property developer is passionate about actively influencing and transforming the local property industry. Mzamo Masito, Chief Marketing Officer, Google Africa Masito’s role entails bringing to life Google’s mission to organise the world’s information and make it universally accessible and be useful so that Google’s users and partners can grow in Africa. He has an MBA from the Gordon Institute of Business Science (Gibs). He lectures at the AAA School of Advertising and serves on the Gibs advisory board. He previously held senior positions at Vodacom, Unilever and Nike. Masito founded and runs an NGO called African Men Care, which funds underprivileged children to further their studies. He is passionate about learning and what the power of education can do for the African people. He’s an advocate for diversity and building the African continent.