These strategies will help you create wealth through property investment Investing in property is a low-risk way of creating wealth and all it takes is one investment to eventually build an empire. Here are six strategies that will help you become a property millionaire. 1. Opt for a flat rather than a house When it comes to the rental market, a flat will always be a better investment than a house and offers you the best return. Recent data shows that a one-bedroom flat will give you the best bang for your buck, but a two-bedroom, two-bathroom flat will also give you a decent return on investment. 2. Look for the right location and follow infrastructure Location is everything, particularly as far as buying-to-let is concerned. Instead of looking at the cheapest or most expensive properties, you should rather be looking at suburbs that offer the biggest potential  with a little development. READ MORE: The one property investment goal to set for 2018 “The best strategy would be to follow the infrastructure. A commuter belt or a new development such as a school or employment hub, will send prices skyrocketing and lure renters,” advises Barrie Swart, Head of Gumtree Property. Remember that you don’t need to invest in property in the town you live in – cast your net further. 3. Don’t put all your eggs in one basket If you’re in the position to investing in multiple properties, don’t make the mistake of buying several properties in the same suburb or area. Just like stock investments, it’s important to have a diversified property portfolio to minimise tour risk. 4. Add value to the property where you can You’d be surprised at the impact that small touch-ups and minor renovations can have on the value of your property. Renovating the kitchen and bathrooms kills two birds with one stone because it’s a surefire way to drive up the rental price potential and the overall value of your property, which will come in handy when you’re ready to sell. 5. Get the right tenant Tenant screening is one of the most important factors to consider, but before you even get there, you need to have a firm understanding of the kind of tenant you’re after. READ MORE: 5 questions to ask before investing in property Bear in mind that a family with children are less likely to move around a lot so you can expect longer-term rentals from families, as opposed to young singles. If you’re investing in property near a university, you’re also likely to get longer-term rentals from students who are more likely to stay in their digs for the duration of their degree if they like the place. 6. Keep up with maintenance The worst mistake you can make is not investing in regular maintenance. “Make sure that you keep up with maintenance requirements and conduct quarterly checks to ensure your rental property remains a great place to live,” Swart says. If the property you are investing in is pet-friendly, then make sure that you add a pet deposit to cover any damage and wear and tear that will inevitably occur. 