Following her brief court appearance on Monday in the East London Magistrate's Court, the country finally gets a breakdown of how Sibongile Mani spent the R14 million she mistakenly received from NSFAS It took Mani less then two hours to spend R20 000 on “prohibited” items, including cigarettes and alcohol. The charge sheet alleges that: READ MORE: NSFAS big-spender Sibongile Mani puts on a brave face for court “Prohibited items” [items NSFAS does not allow students to use its funds for] to the value of R286 108 were purchased, including alcohol, cigarettes, electrical appliances, bedding, airtime, gift cards, toys and microwave ovens. The charge sheet states that: “During each of her purchases over the period, she was provided with a receipt that showed her current balance. On 1 June 2017, when she made her first purchases at 2.55pm, she became aware of the erroneous credit. On 1 June 2017 alone, she spent approximately R20 000.” The charge sheet also alleges that Mani renamed herself on her social media account to “Sibongile Money” and that she published pictures of her receipt showing the huge sum. “The accused knew at all times that she was only entitled to a food allowance of R1 400 and the credit she had received on 1 June 2018 of R14,1 million was incorrect, it did not belong to her and she was not entitled to spend it. The accused did unlawfully and intentionally steal R818 469 as described in the preamble to the charge sheet.” State prosecuting advocate Luthando Makoyi on Monday confirmed to the court he had furnished Mani’s lawyer with the charge sheet and docket. Mani was arrested by the Hawks on 29 May, after the student fund distributor InteliMali opened a theft case on 5 September 2017. READ MORE: WSU, NSFAS, IntelliMali distance themselves from R14m error Mani is accused of failing to report the alleged “error” and instead spending R810 000 in 73 days. The case was opened at the Berlin police station. The theft trial of the third-year Walter Sisulu University accounting student was postponed to 25 October after Mani’s lawyer, Asanda Pakade, told East London regional magistrate Nomthandazo Vabaza that the defence team were still studying the contents of the docket and charge sheet submitted by the state. Mani is charged with theft of R818 469 after the R14 million was transferred as a result of a “systems error”, according to the charges. – The Daily Dispatch