Single women in South Africa are straddled with debt, with over two-thirds of women relying on short-term loans to get by Around 71% of the debt that single women – who are currently under debt counselling – have raked up is attributed to unsecured debt. This is according to data released by debt management agency DebtBusters which found that, contrary to popular belief, the women’s debt accumulated for retail store accounts accounted for just 26% of the debt and somewhat puts paid to the notion that women plunge themselves into debt in an attempt to keep up with the Joneses or on retail therapy. In fact, 45% of the unsecured debt was generated from personal loans, payday loans and credit card debt. Wealth Factory founder Garret Gunderson shares four ways help you get out of the debt trap: To become debt-free, you ultimately need to minimise your payments while maximising your cash flow. The best way to do this is to consolidate your short-term and often high interest-bearing loans into a single long-term loan. READ MORE: When you’re up to your eyeballs in debt Provided you have enough equity on your home loan, one way you can do this is by refinancing your bond – which is a tax deductible loan – and add as many of your non-deductible loans like your vehicle financing loan and credit cards onto it. “This will typically lower your minimum monthly debt payment and the tax deduction will also increase your cash flow,” says Gunderson. With this increased cash flow, you can then work at getting rid of other loans one at a time. Before you start focusing on clearing your debt, Gunderson says you should first create a financial safety net with at least three months’ income, but if you can manage six months’, that would be preferable. “If you have no cash reserves, what happens when you pay down your loans, but then experience an unexpected cash flow crunch? You simply increase your loan balances again or even worse, miss payments and hurt your credit score, therefore getting charged more for future loans,” he says. Treating the symptoms and not the cause won’t get you very far, so the key to successfully getting rid of your debt is consciously shifting the way you think about debt. Ask yourself why you incurred that debt and how you justified it. READ MORE: How changing your mindset can help you get out of debt “A simple guide moving forward: Do not borrow to consume. Use cash for luxuries and only borrow for productive assets and resources or necessities,” he says. Instead of ploughing extra money into your bond and tying your money in an asset, Gunderson suggests that you rather save the money that you would otherwise have put into your bond into a separate account and let it accrue interest until it accumulates enough to settle your loan in full. “A good rule here is to only put extra money into loans where your minimum payment goes down as your balance goes down, otherwise you’re worsening your cash flow index with every payment. It doesn’t give you immediate benefit and it increases your risk by reducing your liquidity,” he advises.