The former YoTV star recently launched a women's empowerment event series aimed at inspiring young ladies to find and live their purpose The 5FM DJ yesterday hosted a GRL PWR (“girl power”) empowerment brunch at the Palazzo Hotel in Johannesburg, with actress Terry Phetho as the keynote speaker. “Do something that scares you every now and then. It will help keep you set on your own path to success” – one of the gems Phetho shared during her speech. Other speakers included Sony Music Africa Marketing Director Aisha Mohamed, personal trainer and Adidas Ambassador Mapule Ndhlovu, Design Essentials Marketing Director Zoe Dhlembeu and Y Her co-creator and Amazi Chief Business Officer Katleho Tsoku. The GRL PWR Series is a platform Voster created to empower and inspire young women in different spheres of their lives through dialogue and seeks to offer a safe space for women to grow, share, supply and network. READ MORE: Tumi Voster recognised at Gauteng Premier Youth Excellence Awards “I’m learning so much about myself, my journey and my purpose right now in my life as a young woman. It’s so amazing when you get to fall in love with a purpose bigger than yourself and if I can use my platform to empower and inspire other young women, I will grab it with both hands,” Voster said about her latest endeavour. At the brunch, which was sold out at R450 per person, Voster said for a woman to find her path to success, she has to become that path. “She has to dream and treat her dream as a business. Yes, there are setbacks and there are challenges. but when we realise our vision, true potential and power within and engage with other successful women who have had a similar story, building their success by overcoming their trials to reach their goals, it gives others the strength to carry on.” The event’s theme was “Building Your Own Success Story”. Phetho’s overall message was for women to start where they were and with what they had and build from there. Tsoku outlined how to find the tools to overcome fears and challenges on the road to success, while Mohamed spoke about building long-term success.  