Local songstresses Lira and Simphiwe Dana will join Erykah Badu at the sixth DStv Delicious International Food and Music Festival This year’s festival will feature an all-star team of powerful women taking to the stage, with the two local icons the latest artists to be added to the line-up. The overarching theme for the year is a celebration of women and heritage, with the festival planning a tribute for the late Mam’ Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and other women who have played a key role in liberating the country. The festival will be held at the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit in Midrand on 22 and 23 September. Other international talents gracing our shores include New Zealand’s multi-instrumentalist Jordan Rakei, Jazzanova Live and British acid jazz band D’Influence. READ MORE: Erykah Badu to headline DSTV Delicious International Food and Music Festival More acts are set to be announced in due course. DStv Delicious International Food and Music Festival, has also become a firm calendar favourite with foodies where great culinary creatives share their passions at the Delicious Mile: the festival’s Gourmet Street-Food Market. This year festival-goers can expect an even bigger and better gastronomical experience at this extensive market. REUBEN RIFFEL AT THE FESTIVAL Patrons can enjoy a multi-course meal perfectly curated by Reuben Riffel who is returning to the festival. The long-table restaurant will have its own private bar with a variety of drinks that will perfectly complement every bite. READ MORE: DStv Delicious Festival announces line-up of international acts The festival has hosted some of the biggest names including MasterChef SA Judge Pete Goffe-Wood, chefs Reza Mahammad, Siba Mtongana, Jenny Morris, Rachel Khoo, Ed Baines and John Burton Race. Expect pop-up stalls and food trucks with sumptuous, freshly prepared food and dessert, and a variety of beverages to suit any palette and diet. Tickets range from R280 for Vodacom Kids Zone passes for children between the ages of 3-13, to R1 450 to access The Delicious Lounge. Delicious general admission passes start at R650, but you can get your Delicious Early Bird GA Pass for R550 until the sale period ends. Visit the festival’s website for more info.