The African Development Bank Group announced Bajabulile “Swazi” Tshabalala as both Vice President for Finance and Chief Finance Officer for the African Development Bank Group The African Development Bank (AfDB) has announced the appointment of Bajabulile Tshabalala as vice president for finance and chief finance officer for the Group, effective from August 1. In a statement, the Bank said Tshabalala, a South Africa citizen, was most recently the executive director of Barbican Advisory Group, South Africa, where she was responsible for financial and engineering consulting, transaction and financial advisory. Tshabalala has 26 years experience in finance, treasury management and capital market operations. She graduated with a BA in Economics from Lawrence University in the USA in 1989. She obtained a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Wake Forest University, USA in 1992. According to AfDB, Tshabalala brings solid senior management and leadership experience. With a background in banking, she has extensive experience in finance and treasury operations and strong knowledge in local and international capital markets. Commenting on her appointment, Tshabalala said: “I am excited to join the African Development Bank Group and be part of the talented senior management team that President Adesina has been attracting to the Bank. I am passionate about the Bank’s development agenda that has attracted global attention as bold and innovative for accelerating Africa’s development. “The African Development Bank Group already has world-class and high-performing finance and treasury teams. I am honoured to join to lead these outstanding teams to further build the Bank’s financial strength and capability to help Africa achieve accelerated development”, she said. AfDB president, Akinwumi Adesina said “I am delighted Ms Tshabalala will be joining as our new Vice President for Finance and Chief Finance Officer. She brings extensive experience managing finance and treasury operations of large public and private sector corporations, where she has distinguished herself with a record of performance”. “Swazi’s vast private sector experience will be highly valuable to the African Development Bank Group as we continue to build on the Bank’s very strong financial performance and drive innovative financial approaches to leverage more resources to deliver faster-paced development for African countries and the private sector”, said Adesina.  -Africa News Agency