The SABC is close to R700 million in debt but will still able to broadcast live English Premier League matches on weekends, starting with this weekend's London derby between Arsenal and West Ham United The public broadcaster owes its creditors R694 million, with further accruals of R475 million expected, SABC CFO Yolande van Biljon told the Portfolio Committee on Communications on Tuesday. Furthermore, by the end of this month, the SABC will have only R26 million in its bank account, after salaries and about 25% of the outstanding debt are paid. “Our financial situation is very dire,” said SABC board Chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini. Newly appointed SABC CEO Madoda Mxakwe said the SABC had “serious liquidity challenges”. He said a financially burdened public broadcaster not only affects its employees, but also the local production industry. He said they know they have a responsibility to educate South African voters ahead of next year’s election, but at the moment, that is not possible. They have been engaging Treasury to ensure they get funding. READ MORE: SABC broke, can’t pay legal bills it owes for defending Hlaudi – DA Meanwhile the public broadcaster said it was increasing its soccer offering on Saturday afternoons, with SABC1 showing live matches from the local Premier Soccer League and radio stations providing commentary in all South African official languages. SABC3 will be screening live English Premier League (EPL) matches. David Makubyane, GM for SABC TV Channels, said the EPL was a property that will assist in delivering a huge appetite for international football for SABC3 audiences. “SABC3 is going to provide South Africans who love sports and in particular, soccer, the opportunity to access some of the greatest teams in the world in one of the biggest leagues globally for free. The EPL has a strong brand equity that we believe will contribute towards the building of the SABC3 brand,” Makubyane said. SABC COO Chris Maroleng said they have a “significant funding gap” to obtain broadcasting rights for sport events, while the SABC, as public broadcaster, has a regulatory mandate to broadcast sporting events deemed to be in the national interest according to the regulations set up by Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa). He said the SABC’s failure to broadcast these events will lead to reputational damage, an outcry from the public and it might lead to a decline in advertising revenue and a decline in TV licence payments as a backlash. Furthermore, if they don’t comply with the regulations, they could be fined up to R500 000. READ MORE: SABC faces multi-million-rand legal claims from Robert Marawa, Andile Ncube He said the SABC is not protected by 2010 sports broadcasting regulations. The regulations prescribe sporting events which must be broadcast by the SABC in the national interest. SABC board member Michael Markovitz said they are not asking for money for sports rights, but want the regulations to be amended so that it costs the SABC less. He said the regulations are eight years old. The idea was to make sport more accessible for South Africans. But the sports rights association knows that the SABC has to obtain the rights, therefore they can push up the price. The committee supported the idea of looking into the regulations and committee Chairperson Humphrey Maxegwana said they will engage Icasa about sporting rights. Despite the grim financial picture that was painted, the committee was also satisfied that the SABC is on the right track. They will soon present their turnaround strategy to the committee. DA MP Phumzile van Damme said she is “cautiously optimistic”. READ MORE: Uzalo runs into financial trouble that could see it pulled off air “It seems like the SABC has a handle on the issues,” she said. “Please do not disappoint us when you present your turnaround plan.” Maxegwana said: “You are getting there. Many things you do sit comfortably with the committee.” – News24 & African News Agency