At the beginning of Women's Month, a female doctor was harassed by the father of a patient, who threatened to kill her “Shut up, I don’t speak to women. Who do you think you are?” she was told. According to Dr Masego Sethlodi, the incident happened before 7pm on Wednesday.The incident occurred after a three-year-old was brought into the hospital’s trauma and emergency unit, following a motor vehicle accident in the afternoon. The child was seen by a doctor, taken for a scan and sent back to the emergency unit. “Apparently, the patient’s father had been there since 2pm. The child hit his head and a scan was done. There was a delay in the results.” A nurse repeatedly told the man that they were still waiting for the results. She said the man told the nurse “since you [are] just a mere junior, go and call someone more superior to you”. READ MORE: 100 young doctors and pharmacists jobless in KZN – ANCYL The father had also demanded that his child be taken to a different health facility. The hospital’s CEO, Grey Dube, said the man was taken to the offices of the matron, where he was told that the child could not be released before observation of 24 hours because of the head injury. Sethlodi said she had also tried her best to calm the father down, but instead, she was aggressively told to “shut up”. “He told me to shut up and asked me: ‘Who do you think you are?’ You must just shut up or otherwise you won’t leave this hospital. One family member also threatened that he would shoot me and that they would be waiting for me.” The man later stormed out of the hospital. Security officers tried to prevent him from leaving, but he used a car to block the entrance of the hospital. He was given a refusal of health (RHT) form and left with his child. Sethlodi said she feared for her life and felt unprotected at the hospital. “Every figure that I saw who passed me where I was stationed, I had to look to see if it was him or not. I was quite scared that he or his family member would come back and finish me off like they had been saying in the video.” READ MORE: Charlotte Maxeke hospital blockaded with burning tyres When asked how she felt after the ordeal, Sethlodi said: “I am still quite emotional about it and filled with so much anger that in this day and age, [there] are so much killings around females and females are not being treated in a manner that they should.” Sethlodi has called on the Department of Health to not protect only female doctors, but all doctors. “When patients have [a] dispute against the system… we get called in and interrogated. It has turned into a vicious cycle where doctors are now being abused and patients are always right even when they are wrong. “Doctors just need to forget that they are human and that they have feelings. I just think they (the government) must send out a strong message to say: ‘Yes, we are behind our doctors and we will not condone such behaviour.'” Dube said three security guards had been allocated to the emergency unit. “There are plans to increase this number. A backup is always called when needed. If an event where an incident is above our capacity, the South African Police Service [is] called,” Dube said. – News24 