News that Brickz will be performing at the launch of a music awards ceremony caused a stir on social media on Friday News that convicted rapist and kwaito star Sipho “Brickz” Ndlovu will be performing at the launch of a music awards ceremony caused a stir on social media on Friday, with views divided over whether organisers were disrespecting women or whether the artist had the right to earn an honest living. The 3rd annual Mzansi Kwaito and House Music Awards will be officially launched, with the nominations announced, at the Soweto Theatre on Friday night, while the actual awards ceremony will be held in November at Carnival City In Brakpan, east of Johannesburg. READ MORE: Brickz sentenced to 15 years in jail for rape The Sweetie My Baby hit-maker was found guilty, but later granted R80 000 bail for raping his then 15-year-old orphaned niece at his home in Ruimsig, west of Johannesburg, in 2013. Ndlovu still pleads innocence and is appealing his 15-year jail sentence. Speaking to eNCA earlier on Friday, founder and CEO of the awards, Perfecta Khumalo, said Ndlovu would perform for free at the event because he owes her organisation money after he was paid in 2016, but could not fulfil his obligations as he was in prison at the time. “We have decided, we have had a long relationship with Brickz, this is our third annual event, and he was supposed to perform for us in 2016, and we’ve paid him. And therefore he owes us. We requested him to come to perform for free in this nominations party,” Khumalo said on eNCA. “Kwaito fans love Brickz. We didn’t go to prison and say we request Brickz to come and perform. Brickz has been out. If there is any problem, I think the state should be the one that is questioned because of the bail restrictions he was never told to do his duties. It’s payback time, he needs to pay us what he owes us.” Event organiser Thulani Mabaso’s phone rang unanswered and he ignored text messages. Ndlovu was also not available for comment. READ MORE: Kwaito star Brickz granted R80k bail pending appeal against rape conviction Twitter users were up in arms over the interview given by the awards CEO, but others sympathised with Ndlovu. Solokuhle Nyathi said: “This woman says the reason Brickz is going to perform tonight is because he owes them a performance from 2016 that he was paid for, but didn’t deliver. It’s about money, not integrity.” Thulani Mbhele said: “Convicted and rehabilitated inmate cannot be discriminated for sins he has been punished for, after all, correctional department, one of its objective is to bring back a convict as a new creature.” – African News Agency