The actress has been announced as Brand Japan Ambassador and is tasked with promoting the country to South African audiences The actress studied in Japan and becomes the first person chosen to take on the role. She shares her thoughts on this exciting chapter in her career. Q: Your relationship with Japan began while studying there – can you share a bit about how that came about, your first impression of the country and your experience while there? A: I was an international relations and political science major at Wits University wanting to further my studies in East Asian politics. Having applied for the honours programme, the opportunity came up to apply for the exchange student programme, so I did and was fortunate enough to get it. Japan was magnificently different, buzzing with activity and advanced technology – the toilets talked and had heated seats during the winter months. It was a world I had never imagined. The people were friendly welcoming and very polite. Q: What did you study and at which university in Japan? A: I studied cultural exchange and the politics of Japan in the international arena at Soka University. Q: As the first-ever Brand Japan Ambassador, do you have a vision as far as promoting tourism between the two nations is concerned? A: I have the opportunity to create my own ideas on how to bridge the gap between the two countries. With the advent of social media, this task becomes less tedious. I’ll be travelling to Japan in September, and I’ll be able to take South Africans along with me, on a cyber-journey. I’ll be meeting and engaging with stakeholders in the arts, business and government, touring the country in order to highlight the important relations being built by each country. READ MORE:BFFs on their business venture Let’s Learn Toys Q: When is the best time to visit Japan? A: I would say spring, for the festival of Sakura (cherry blossoms). Q: What are some of the must-do travel activities in Japan? A: If you are a shopaholic like I am, then definitely visit Osaka – the shopping is insane! If you love the night life, then Rappongi is for you. For the nature-lovers, Mount Fuji is a must-see. Q: What’s your top travel tip for first-time travellers to Japan? If you travel to Japan during the rainy month of July (Tsuyu), come prepared; know how to ride a bike, hold an umbrella and speak or take pictures on your phone at the same time! It’s a cute and fun activity during this time. Q: What impact has studying in Japan had on your career? A: When I returned from Japan, I was able to work for a Japanese correspondent newspaper (Mainichi Shunbun) and was trained by one of the best political journalists from Japan. And as an actor, gaining world experience gives you the ability to have experienced many different lives, making it possible for me to morph into any character with ease. Q:What’s the most underrated place (region/province/city) to visit in Japan? A: If travelling with a lover, a Lub Lub hotel (love hotel). It is a mind-blowing experience – there’s absolutely nothing like it! 