Dr Judy Dlamini has been appointed the new Chancellor of Wits University; a history-making appointment of the first black female in this position at the tertiary institution On the evening of 31 July 2018, the University of the Witwatersrand confirmed Dr Judy Dlamini’s election as the new Chancellor of the University, a position that she will take up from 1 December 2018. She takes the reins from Justice Dikgang Moseneke, who  served for two six-year terms in this position. In the statement released by the university, Dr Dlamini was gracious in her acceptance of this prestigious job. “It is an honour and a pleasure to be elected as the Chancellor of the University of the Witwatersrand, one of the most prestigious universities on the continent. I would like to thank Convocation for its confidence in me. I look forward to working with all sectors of the Wits community.” Steps to the Top A medical doctor by training Dr Dlamini is a leading businesswoman, entrepreneur, author, and philanthropist. Her major attribute is creating and adding value to society and humanity. The Founder and Executive Chairman of the Mbekani Group, Dr Dlamini has worked in different sectors of the economy using her diverse skills sets and degrees in different subject areas. Her MBA qualification from Wits University enabled her to change careers and to move into the corporate arena. Dr Dlamini also holds a Doctorate in Business Leadership and an Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate from Stanford University. Professor Tawana Kupe, Acting Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of the Witwatersrand, expressed the institutions pride to have her on board.  “The University is privileged to have Dr Judy Dlamini serve as the Chancellor of one of the leading institutions on the African country. She is a public figure of very high distinction and personal calibre and reflects the University’s commitment to intellectual integrity and academic excellence.” Woman Making History In taking on this new role, Dr Dlamini, will become the titular head of the institution. Chancellorship is a voluntary position which has a six year term of office. The Chancellor often acts as a sounding board to the Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University who serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the institution. The Chancellor presides over the General Assemblies of the University and constitutes graduation congregations of the University for each ceremony. The Chancellor of the University is elected by its Convocation. This means that in landing this position, Dr Dlamini garnered the votes and support of the members which include: All graduates; full-time academic members of staff; Professors Emeriti; the Vice-Chancellor and Principal; the Vice-Principal, Deputy Vice-Chancellors; the University Registrar; and retired academic employees. READ MORE: Will it be Judy Dlamini or Anele Mngadi for Wits Chancellor? As a leading businesswoman, entrepreneur, author, and philanthropist, Dr Dlamini is ideally suited to this new role. Throughout her career, a major attribute has been creating and adding value to society and humanity. She has worked in different sectors of the economy using her diverse skills sets and degrees in different subject areas. Dr Dlamini is also published author of  Equal but Different which was a bestseller for several weeks. 