Everyone has that makeup item that they just can't bear to do without, but wearing expired makeup is harming your skin Makeup isn’t cheap, so it’s understandable that you’d want to get the most out of your favourite glam items, but the fact of the matter is that all makeup products have an expiry date for a reason. Expired makeup could explain the acne you’ve been experiencing, so here’s a mini-guide that will help you figure out when it’s time to chuck out the old and usher in the new. Liquid foundation Foundation is one of those items that lasts longer than the rest. Hannon Bothma, co-founder of Hannon, says you shouldn’t hold on to foundation for longer than eight months. READ MORE: Three basic makeup tools every woman should own “You should be able to get a good six to eight months out of your base. However, if your liquid becomes lumpy, causes redness or gets really thick, toss it. This could be the main cause of your acne or sensitivity,” he says.  Mascara Because our eyelashes carry bacteria, mascara makes an easy conduit for the bacteria from our eye to be transferred to the mascara brush, so hanging onto your mascara until it is totally dry is a complete non-no. In fact, Bothma advises that you throw that mascara out after three months. “Most people use theirs until they get dry or super-clumpy, but it’s best to let go before you put yourself at risk of eye infections – especially if you share your mascara,” he advises.  Blush Blush is another item that tends to last longer if you store it in a cool place – up to a year if stored correctly. “Keep it in a cool, dry place to prevent colour loss, as well as excess moisture, which can cause bacteria to flourish. Blushes tend to carry loads of bacteria, especially if you don’t wash your blush brush very often,” Bothma warns.  Lipstick Lipsticks are the longest-lasting items in your makeup bag and the good news is that you can hold on to them for up to two years. READ MORE: Signature makeup looks for women who wear glasses “The risk of bacteria getting into your lipstick is low, because lipstick doesn’t contain water. However, the essential oils and vitamins in your favourite lipstick do start to break down after a year,” Bothma says.  Eyeshadow Powdered eyeshadow can last up to two years, but if you have sensitive eyes or you’re paranoid about infections, Bothma suggests that you change your eyeshadow every six months, just to be safe. “You’ll know your shadow is on its way out when the texture starts to break and become flaky,” he says.   