These are the trends expected to shape the future of the real estate market on the continent With logistics costs accounting for between 30%-40% of product retail costs, if you want to do business on the continent you’d do best to invest in industrial property. In fact, Africa Logistics Properties CEO Toby Selman says there are basically no grade-A warehousing in Africa. “It tends to be the ugly duckling in the property sector, as most investors flock to offices and retail first. And while most investors think the highest demand comes from multinationals, it is the fast-growing regional companies that tend to be the first movers, largely because they have higher local growth rates than the international companies. We see the main demand for our facilities from e-commerce, third-party logistics companies, product distributors and retailers,” he says. Here are a few other property investment trends to get ahead of the curve. Affordable housing Property developers have already cottoned on to the highly lucrative low-cost housing market, but the challenge that many African countries face is the lack of quality low-cost housing with a minimum standard of infrastructure to prevent the spread of diseases. READ MORE: How you can become a property millionaire “The target group for low-cost housing, in general, does not have enough equity or credit history to finance the purchase of even low-cost dwelling units. Without innovative financing solutions, there can be no mass supply of low-cost dwelling units,” says Zero Carbon Designs Chairman Eckardt Dauck. Student accommodation While the student accommodation sector is booming in SA, it remains an under-serviced market across the rest of the continent and provides a great window of opportunity for property investors. Unlike in Europe and Australia, where demand for student accommodation is predominantly driven by international students, the demand on the continent is driven by African students who prioritise affordability. “We believe that the demand for tertiary education will likely be driven by increasing urbanisation, higher living standards, mobility, as well as technological advancement in educational content delivery. This will have differing implications for the industry. However, I expect the demand trend to be upwardly steep, but continually constrained by affordability at state, university and student levels,” says Respublica CEO Craig McMurray. Serviced apartments Less than 1% of all hotel rooms across the continent are serviced apartments, with the highest concentration of serviced apartments found in South Africa. READ MORE: Soweto outperforms Sandton in property barometer Compare this figure to the global rate which is nearly 9% and it’s evident that there’s plenty room for investment opportunities. “Due to historic undersupply, serviced apartments are increasing. Africa requires a secure and affordable alternative to regular hotels for consultants to stay for the many projects in Africa as the continent, unfortunately, imports a lot ofskills internationally,” says The Capital MD Marc Wachsberger.