The innovative South African blockchain start-up, SAFCOIN, is giving investors the opportunity to invest in the lucrative start-up phase of what will be Africa’s first exclusive crypto-currency Despite the international success of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, the concept of investing in a digital currency remains relatively unexplored in the African market. With the global pioneers in cryptocurrency having revolutionised trading and investment, is there an opportunity for South Africans to tap into the potential of blockchain technology? Brothers Neil and Tony Ferreira, who founded SAFCOIN in 2017, have partnered with a number of reputable companies from around the world who have taken an active role in ensuring the legal compliance of SAFCOIN and the development of the website and blockchain technology. CEO Neil suggests that the fluctuation in the price of crypto-currencies like Bitcoin might make African investors feel as though they have missed their chance to invest. “However, the introduction of an African crypto-currency means that it is not too late. In fact, it is the perfect time for Africans to be entering the market,” he adds. READ MORE: Mahala Coin is SA’s new cryptocurrency SAFCOIN is offering South Africans the opportunity to invest in the lucrative start-up phase. The Ferreiras predict that once SAFCOIN is open for trading on the exchange, the increased token volume and spike in demand will have a positive influence on its value. “This is why we wanted to exclusively open pre-sales to South Africans and give them the opportunity to be a part of African crypto-history.” SAFCOIN was created by a group of South African crypto-enthusiasts and entrepreneurs who have knowledge and experience in programming, networking, online trading and exchange. SAFCOIN has allocated 500 000 initial coin offering (ICO) tokens for purchase during the exclusive South African pre-sales stage, which launched on 12 July this year. Neil says: “After the 500 000 ICO tokens have been purchased during pre-sales locally, 5 million SAFCOINS will be made available on the exchange for mining and trade, making each coin precious to own.” “All investors will need a digital wallet, known as a blockchain wallet, to store their SAFCOIN tokens. This is created automatically by the SAFCOIN registration system and will be migrated to a crypto-wallet for trading once SAFCOIN launches globally. Investors, therefore, don’t need to worry about having any wallet experience.” He highlights that the funds generated during the ICO pre-sales phase are being invested back into SAFCOIN, to increase its value before launched for exchange. READ MORE: SA’s first crypto-currency ATM to open in Joburg “We uphold strict standards with SAFCOIN financial management and have outsourced our smart contract audit to a third party, SmartDec. After the 500 000 ICO tokens have been purchased, which is anticipated by 31 October 2018, we will launch our own SAFCOIN trading exchange, where investors can start trading. “Our aim is to then bring foreign money into Africa instead of seeing African money being invested in international crypto-trade,” he explains. To purchase ICO tokens at R70 each during the exclusive South African pre-sales stage, visit the SAFCOIN website.   