Dubbed "Mr Bitcoin", Mpho Dagada developed critical entrepreneurial traits from an early age Mpho Dagada narrates his entrepreneurial journey and business lessons in his book entitled, Mr Bitcoin: Becoming a Millionaire at 21, published by Jacana Media. Inspired by his grandfather, who ran a chain of shops in rural Limpopo, Dagada details how the business traits learnt when he was young led to the establishment of his first informal business when he was 15. Dagada’s entrepreneurial passion kept fuelling new business concepts until he discovered Bitcoin. It was through this business adventure that he learnt valuable lessons necessary for his growth and the outlook he has on business today. His book takes you through his life story, a journey of entrepreneurship leading to great success. READ MORE: 7 Mentorship lessons from Namibian First Lady Monica Geingos Focusing on his success with Bitcoin and the crypto-currency industry, he also touches on factors which shaped his genetics and understanding of business, taking into consideration circumstances one may encounter on one’s own journey. The author and speaker then draws a direct contrast throughout his book between life, circumstances, success and business and at the end of each chapter, notes valuable lessons to consider as an entrepreneur. Here are some of these lessons from Dagada. Failing fast helps you grow As an entrepreneur, failing quickly helps you grow and avoid getting comfortable, as the journey is not easy, but is worthwhile for those who don’t give up easily. Every obstacle faced and mistake made is a lesson and it ultimately leads you to be more alert and pay special attention as your grow your enterprise to the next level. Taking risks “Be crazy by all means, but don’t risk a loss you cannot afford. If a new investment such as a franchise tempts you, talk to people who are in it already. Ask them about the advantages and setbacks. Think long and hard before you take the plunge. Sound information is the basis of a viable business.” READ MORE: Lessons to learn about marketing your business Fail, learn and continue Don’t be afraid of failure. It can be a bitter and humbling experience, but it can also be a new beginning. Treat each failure as a learning experience, as young entrepreneurs learn personal lessons from failure and gain invaluable self-knowledge about talents, attitudes, weakness and strong points. Failure makes you a stronger person and leads to new and more promising paths in life. Dagada is a crypto-currency expert who specialises in Bitcoin and boasts vast experience in the field. He is the owner of Invest in Future Currency, which hosts online classes and live seminars to teach and educate the public about crypto-currencies.   