10 Marikana widows whose husbands were killed before the Marikana massacre six years ago on Wednesday said that they were "living in silence" “We are living in silence since 2012, it is because of this silence  that South Africa does not know about 10 victims that were killed by the 34,” said Aisha Fundi. She said President Ramaphosa must come to Marikana to address issues relating to compensation. “We want the President to come to Marikana to address issues, especially when coming to compensation, now that our loved ones were killed by the 34, who are responsible for our payments, whether it is Lonmin or the President… we need answers, we are tired of coming here and talking about the same thing every day.” Her husband Hassan Fundi, who was a security superintendent at Lonmin, was killed, together with his colleague Frans Mabalane, by striking mineworkers. They were hacked and put inside their vehicle before it was burnt. She said their body parts were cut off. READ MORE: Remembering Marikana: Maimane asks Ramaphosa to declare 16 Aug a memorial day “The strikers hacked them, they cut them and set them alight inside a vehicle. They badly cut them because they did not want us to recognise what was missing from their bodies. At the time, I heard they had a sangoma, they took the body parts to the sangoma. That is how my husband was brutally killed.” Lonmin held a candle-lighting ceremony in Mooinooi to remember all 44 people killed during the violent strike at its operations in August 2012. Some 34 mineworkers died on 16 August  2012, when the police shot them – 10 other people including two security officers and two policemen were killed in days leading up to 16 August. Lonmin workers waged a week-long strike demanding to be paid R12 500 as a minimum basic monthly salary. The sixth Marikana Massacre anniversary will be held on Thursday in Marikana. Fundi said that they were never invited to the commemoration on 16 August, and were never acknowledged despite their husbands being killed in the Marikana 2012 violence. A night vigil was planned on Wednesday night in Marikana West ahead of the commemoration on Thursday. READ MORE: Former NW top cop and others back in court for Marikana incidents Activist Napoleon Webster said they would sit around a big fire and warned that ANC members were not welcomed at the night vigil. – African News Agency