In exploring the topic of race, National Geographic acknowledges its own role in maintaining racism In National Geographic’s April issue, the publication explores the subject of race and accounts for its role in perpetuating racial stereotypes. It also delves into how race defines, separates, and unites us.  Editor Susan Goldberg, who is National Geographic’s 10th editor, says that she is the first female Jewish person to be in such a role – as “a member of two groups that also once faced discrimination here”. She says while it hurts to share the appalling stories of the magazine’s past, when the title decided to devote the April issue to race, “we thought we should examine our own history before turning our reportorial gaze to others”. READ: How to have the race conversation with your child In exploring the stories that the magazine has covered throughout the years, South Africa is featured. John Edwin Mason, a University of Virginia professor specialising in the history of photography and the history of Africa, compares two stories about South Africa from 1962 and 1977 respectively. Referring to a 1962 story about South Africa published in the magazine two-and-a-half years after the Sharpeville massacre, Mason says: “National Geographic’s story barely mentions any problems. There are no voices of black South Africans. That absence is as important as what is in there. The only black people are doing exotic dances… servants or workers. It’s bizarre, actually, to consider what the editors, writers, and photographers had to consciously not see.” Things slightly improved by 1977, when National Geographic published an article about apartheid South Africa. “It’s not a perfect article, but it acknowledges the oppression,” Mason says. “Black people are pictured. Opposition leaders are pictured. It’s a very different article.” Goldberg says: “For us this issue also provided an important opportunity to look at our own efforts to illuminate the human journey, a core part of our mission for 130 years.” READ: Bullied 10-year-old empowers girls to embrace their dark skin Twitter users shared their reactions on the platform:     Race in South Africa A February 2017 report from the Institute of Race Relations in South Africa, entitled Reasons for Hope, indicates that race relations are improving in the country. “Significantly, more than half (55%) of the respondents thought they had improved, while just over a quarter (27%) felt they had stayed the same,” the report reads. “Overall, more than 80% of respondents thought race relations had either improved or stayed the same, while roughly 5% said they did not know.” The survey canvassed the views of a sample of 2 291 people from all nine provinces. It covered both rural and urban areas and all socio-economic strata.