Capitec remains the bank South Africans are most satisfied with, according to the latest SA Customer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi) for the banking sector For a fifth year running, Capitec has retained its title as the bank with the most satisfied customers – one of only two banks to grow its customer satisfaction score. At 85,3 points, Capitec’s satisfaction score has remained above the industry average (77 points) over the past three years. “Despite recent negative news around Capitec’s loan practices, many of the bank’s transactional customers have affirmed their loyalty, as it is able to deliver on high expectations in reality to customers’ perceived value,” says Consulta CEO Professor Adrè Schreuder. “It will be interesting to see how the current news cycle and segment of unhappy customers will impact overall satisfaction in future SAcsi for banking surveys.” FNB, together with newly included African Bank, placed joint second with a satisfaction score of 81, followed by Nedbank with a score of 76,3 points and Standard Bank, which was placed last in 2016, staging a significant recovery with consumers during 2017, with the bank improving its satisfaction score by 3,3 points to 75,2 points. READ MORE: Capitec voted best bank in the world The biggest loser for the year was Absa, which saw its customer satisfaction score fall to 73,3 points, the lowest score assigned to any local bank. Schreuder attributes Absa’s decline to a dramatic reduction in customers during the first half of 2017. “Absa, which managed to score higher than Standard Bank in 2016, fell behind in customer satisfaction in 2017, with scores significantly lower than the industry average in almost all satisfaction metrics. This is also reflected its loss of almost 300 000 customers during the first six months of 2017, which as reported on, is driven by bank-initiated closures of dormant accounts in the entry-level segments,” Schreuder says. The SAcsi survey is based on consumer perceptions about whether brands are exceeding or falling short of customer expectations and a consumer’s idea of the ideal product. Adding more than 200 000 customers to its base every month, Capitec has mushroomed to become SA’s second biggest bank by customer numbers, with a mid-2017 recorded customer base of 9,3 million customers. “FNB has consistently maintained second position on the SAcsi, and remains a strong brand widely regarded as the most innovative and disruptive, even though its score declined slightly in 2017,” says Schreuder. “It is notable that the newly included African Bank enters at a similar position to FNB at 81. Standard Bank, on the other hand, has seen the greatest improvement in SAcsi score, leaping from 71,9 to 75,2.” He says Standard Bank scored a win with consumers with its What’s Your Next? campaign last year, which was focused on reconnecting with consumers in a way that acknowledged their uniqueness as individuals, gearing itself up to offer products and services that are more customer-centric. READ MORE: Capitec is the fastest-growing brand in SA “Standard Bank will need to focus on translating this powerful message into the day-to-day operations of the bank to ensure that the true value of this is realised among its customers,” he says. Capitec also took top spot in the perceived quality index, followed by African Bank, FNB, Standard Bank and Absa. Last year, Capitec overtook Nedbank as the fourth most valuable bank in the country, named the fastest-growing brand in the country by Brand Finance and it was voted the best bank in the world by UK advisory firm the Lafferty Group for a second consecutive year. South Africa’s banking customer satisfaction score is the second highest in the world, beaten only by the USA, which achieved an overall score of 80 points.