If you're looking for a way to save for groceries as a collective, Pick n Pay and Absa have teamed up to launch a new grocery stokvel account With the rising price of groceries, toiletries and everyday items, the time couldn’t be better to take advantage of a group savings scheme to make grocery-buying more affordable. “Stokvels tend to keep their savings at home – which holds the risk of theft – or their savings are deposited into accounts where the interest rate isn’t tailored specifically for them. For example, banks tend to pay higher interest rates for balances greater than R100 000, but many stokvels save between R20 000 and R50 000 annually, which generates a lower rate of interest,” says Pick n Pay GM for wholesale and stokvel Papi Rapolai. READ MORE: Property stokvel to create investment opportunities for black communities The new account has been designed to benefit stokvels by offering interest on balances as low as R50. What’s more is that members who then spend their savings at Pick n Pay can take advantage of additional savings on groceries purchased. Last year, the retail giant launched the Smart Shopper Wholesale Stokvel card, which, like the individual Smart Shopper card, offers users benefits and access to various product promotions. “The account also doesn’t charge monthly management fees or for the first Absa ATM or in-branch cash deposit each month, so money saved goes to building the stokvel’s value,” says Rapolai. Withdrawing funds is as easy as visiting an Absa branch and placing a notice of withdrawal with the bank. The money is then paid out into a Pick n Pay account and made available for use in a store within 24 hours. READ MORE: Using travel stokvels to power your next baecation “Our collaboration with Absa means stokvel members don’t ever have to take the risk of carrying large amounts of cash again,” he says. Stokvel account members can also enjoy free delivery for purchases over R30 000 and within a 15km radius. “We’ve listened carefully to our stokvel customers. We’re confident this new tailored solution is perfect for their needs and will help create great value for them. We would encourage stokvel groups to check whether they are receiving competitive interest rates and purchase discounts on their hard-earned savings,” he advises. 