Angolan Isabel dos Santos and Nigerian Folorunsho Alakija are the only women from Africa who feature on the Forbes list of billionaires in 2018 From a field of more than 2 000 richest people in the world, Forbes has found 23 billionaires in Africa who are worth a combined $75,4 billion, but only two women feature on the list. Isabel dos Santos, the daughter of Angola’s longtime President, Jose Eduardo dos Santos, is worth an estimated $2,7 billion this year, down from $3,2 billion a year ago. READ MORE: Jeff Bezos spends one day as the richest man on the planet Forbes reports that her net worth dropped in part due to lower stock values for Banco BIC, an Angolan bank, during a tough year for the oil-producing country. Nigeria’s Folorunsho Alakija, whose estimated $1,6 billion fortune lies in oil exploration firm Famfa Oil, which is working with Chevron and Petrobras on a lucrative offshore oil field, is the only other woman on the list. Forbes’ annual ranking of the world’s billionaires shows that together, they are worth a record $9,1 trillion, up 18% from last year. The 20 richest people in the world are worth a staggering $1,2 trillion. Jeff Bezos is the richest person on the planet, with shares of his e-commerce giant Amazon rising 59% over 12 months and helping boost his fortune by $39,2 billion. He easily moved ahead of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who ceded the top spot for only the sixth time since 1995. Although only two women from Africa featured in this year’s Forbes list, it has been another record year for female billionaires around the world. An all-time high of 256 women made it to the list, with their collective net worth topping $1 trillion, up 20% from last year. READ MORE: Sisters doing it for themselves: Africa’s 10 richest women According to Forbes, though most of the women at the top of the list inherited their fortunes, more than a quarter of the female moguls were self-starters. This year, the number of self-made women reached 71 for the first time. African-American Oprah Winfrey also featured in this year’s list, with a net worth estimated at $2,7 billion. Her once-struggling cable channel, OWN (Oprah Winfrey Network), is reportedly now cash flow positive and is enjoying soaring ratings on the back of a series of successful sitcom and drama collaborations. Source: Forbes.com