Caster Semenya will be out to break the oldest South African track and field record on Thursday when competes in the 1 000m at the Athletics Grand Prix meeting at Tuks It was in 1983 in Bloemfontein when Ilze Wicksell won the 1 000m in a new South African record time of 2:37.2. Semenya, the Olympic and World Champion, has made no secret in the past of her eagerness to break the longstanding record, but there hasnt been an opportunity for her to do so. It would be fantastic for athletics if Semenya succeeds, as it would be classic scenario of one trailblazer taking over from another. Wicksell, who now works as a sports manager at TuksSport, was the first female athlete to dip under two minutes in the 800m. Semenya has taken 800m running to a whole new level, not only improving the national record but dominating the event. She has been unbeaten for the past two years. READ MORE: Caster Semenya nominated for Nickelodeon 2018 Kids’ Choice Awards Wicksell has no qualms about Semenya bringing an end to her legacy. “Records are there to be broken. I do not doubt that Caster is going to shatter my record and it is good. If records are broken, it means our athletics is healthy.” There is slight chance that rain could impact the outcome of the race. However, the fact that Semenya will be challenged by the two Ugandan athletes, Winnie Nanyondo and Halimah Nakaayi, ought to ensure that the race will be run at a fast pace regardless of the conditions. Semenya advised her rivals yesterday at a press conference to work with her to stick to the pre-agreed splits. “If we all hit it from the start, it will be easier for everyone. But if it is going to come down to a sprint, you know what will happen,” said Semenya, hinting on her legendary acceleration skills towards the end of a race. Asked if it was a threat. Semenya just laughed and said she was referring to the likely outcome if it is a slow race. The world record in the 1 000m was set by Svetlana Masterkova (Russia) in 1996 – a time of 2:28.98. Semenya has not set her sights on the world mark. READ MORE: Caster Semenya: Super-athlete As for her record attempt, Wicksell said almost pulled out of the race, as her dad, one of her most loyal supporters, had passed away. “Emotionally, I was not up to racing, but a week before the race, I realised that my father would have wanted me to run. The idea of running 1 000 metres was to level the playing field between Zola Budd and me.  I was a good 800m runner, while she was competitive over 1 500m.” As expected, it was a tightly contested race, with Wicksell beating Budd by a mere 0,7 seconds. It was the only time the pair raced competitively against each other. In later races, Wicksell acted as a pacemaker for Budd. – African News Agency