Starting your own business can be a very lonely journey, however there are ways to overcome this challenge Most people have had the urge to escape the cubicle and venture out on their own. The ‘glamour’ of being your own boss holds a lot of appeal for people who are dissatisfied with their nine-to-five. Many people are only willing to think about the great perks of being an entrepreneur. Getting to call the shots? Check. Working at your own pace? Check. But being a businessperson also comes with many negatives. One of the challenges that many new businesspeople confront is isolation. Often, when people can’t afford office space, they set up a home office. But lack of interaction with other people can be crippling. While it may be liberating to make decisions all by yourself, having people to bounce ideas off is imperative. READ MORE: Top tips for startup entrepreneurs from “the sharks” Entrepreneur says there are a number of ways to overcome these challenges. In season two of  Project Grow, hosted by the online business advice site Entrepreneur.com, there  are some tips on how an entrepreneur can overcome loneliness when they start their business. Joining an online forum with people who are doing something similar to you can be the first step. When you feel like you have your feet on the ground, starting a group with like-minded people which meets once a month or once a week can give you a sense of being able to tap into other like-minded people’s brains. If this is the first time you are starting a business, there are a number of unknowns you have to contend with. Gone is the stable income and the certainty that comes with it and you are solely responsible for the failure or success of your business. This can lead to anxiety and fear of the unknown, however this is the time when you need to be the most resilient. READ MORE: Mash Braai House founder Ngwato Mashilwane on his entrepreneurial journey In a previous interview with DESTINY, Cape Town-based life coach Siphokazi Kwekweni said there are a number of things you can do when you feel as though you are sinking into a spiral of fear. Counting your blessings and listing your accomplishments will help bring you back to reality and ground you. This includes spending time thinking about your successes and positive feedback you have received. Kwekweni also suggested becoming conscious of the way you talk to yourself, switching to positive self-talk, improving self-awareness, and  getting to know your strengths and values.