Our beauty assistant, Busi Manunga, shares her must-have black girl beauty products. Now that I’ve officially settled into the year and had a look at some of the best products on the market, I’m giving you the low-down on some of my favourite products for black women and sharing why I love them. Lancôme Teint Idole Ultra Wear Foundation,  First on my black beauty must-have list is Lancôme’s Teint Idole Foundation. If you don’t like a scented foundation, then this one isn’t for you, but I absolutely love this one. Along with the subtle hint of clean, floral fragrance you also get really long wear out of this product and very little shine, but more of a dewy appearance with time. It also comes in shades that are perfect for any skin tone ranging from your lighter browns to your darkest chocolate – still can’t find your shade? You can always mix foundations to achieve it and this one is worth the purchase. MAC Retro Matte Liquid Lipcolour, What a wow! I’ve always loved a good matte lipstick, but honestly it’s just so much admin to have to exfoliate and moisturise lips before application then still have your lipstick crack halfway through your day. Not to mention the difficulty of applying these mattes. MAC’s Retro Matte Liquid Lipcolours are the solution to all of the above. They go on liquid then dry matte. And not a little matte either, I’m talking matte MATTE. If you’re a lipstick perfectionist like myself, you’ll absolutely love this. I’m currently loving the Retro Matte in Espresso but with their wide range of brown lipsticks, you’re bound to find your perfect match too. L’Oreal Pure Clay Purity Mask,  I have oily skin which shines beyond the “healthy glow”, so using a face mask every now and then is essential to me. I’ve found that many people are completely uneducated about the benefits of using a good face mask to treat your skin concerns. L’Oreal’s Purify and Mattify Clay Mask is basically the remedy to most of my oily skin issues as it helps remove excess oil from my skin as well as helps improve the appearance of my pores. Just apply the mask to your face, let it sit for ten minutes and wash off. SkinCeuticals Advanced Pigment Corrector,  One of the biggest concerns for black women is how best to tackle skin pigmentation and even out skin tone. We all deal with it, sometimes the sun will hit a certain spot on your face and leave your skin with two different shades of brown. In some cases, the hormonal changes do the dirty work and pigment your skin. For this, I recommend the SkinCeauticals Advanced Pigment Corrector which works to create even skin tone as well as fade discoloration of the skin over time. For value worth the price tag, this is the product to use if pigmentation is a huge issue for you. Neutrogena Anti-Aging Hand Cream,  Many women tend to neglected their hands. Unfortunately hands are the appendages that eventually show your age and should be looked after in the same way you would look after your face. Since darker hands are more prone to looking ashy when dry, one should definitely invest in a quality hand cream. To resolve this universal problem, I give to you Neutrogena’s Anti-Aging Hand cream with a SPF of 25 for sun protection. Prevention is better than cure when it comes to using products with anti-age properties like this one, so why not protect your hands while moisturizing too?