Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has called on the international community not to panic over the parliamentary process on land reform The International Relations and Cooperation Minister said in a statement that she has noted a number of international organisations and individuals commenting on the parliamentary process in relation to the country’s land distribution. “There is no need to panic or be alarmist,” she said. “There is a parliamentary process underway and all stakeholders, domestic and international, must respect that process and also take advantage of that process to make their input. The President remains committed to engage all stakeholders during this process,” she said. READ MORE: Expropriation of land without compensation gets parliamentary green light She said the international community played an important role in the fight against apartheid and all its repressive and discriminatory policies. “We invite members of the international community to continue supporting our efforts to reverse the legacy of apartheid.” The National Assembly paved a way for land expropriation without compensation last month during a motion initially brought forward by EFF leader Julius Malema. The motion to amend the Constitution to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation was referred to the Constitutional Review Committee, which is expected to report back to Parliament by 30 August. Sisulu said President Cyril Ramaphosa has already said in Parliament and other public platforms while addressing various stakeholders that there is no need to panic. Ramaphosa previously said the matter is being handled properly for the benefit of all South Africans and that views and concerns of all stakeholders will be considered during the parliamentary processes and Parliament will take a decision for the benefit of all citizens. Talking to eNCA from his home in KwaZulu-Natal, newly appointed Minister of Finance Nhlanhla Nene said international investors would not be scared off, given the fact that the debate was taking place. READ MORE: Mixed reaction to land expropriation push “There is no better stimulus than the confidence that the new leadership brings. I think the good thing is the debate is taking place because it would be bad if the debate was not taking place “The best place for this debate is with the legislature, which will have to take it out to all the stakeholders and hear the views of everyone,” he said.