If you want to be taken more seriously by your male colleagues, new research suggests that striking a typically male power pose will do the trick It’s often said that to succeed in a patriarchal society, women should think and act more like men. And now, a University College London study is taking this notion a step further by suggesting that women in the workplace will have a better chance of being perceived as leadership material if they stand like a man. Executed correctly, the perfect power pose – which means standing with your feet firmly planted on the ground at shoulder-width distance apart with your elbows pointing away from the body and not against it – exudes a certain level of confidence which men, in particular, react to positively. READ MORE: Fewer women in leadership positions in SA “It seems the way people look when words are spoken influences the way people interpret these words,” study co-author Richard Newman said in a paper recently published in the Psychology journal. The researchers came to their conclusion after studying the way 1 500 men and women reacted to a series of videos depicting an actress delivering the same speech but standing in different positions. In a second experiment, 500 study participants were asked to watch videos of men and women who assumed one of two poses: the power pose and a more passive stance with their hands kept by their sides as they swayed nervously from side-to-side. The researchers found that the participants perceived the people who struck the power pose as more confident, inspiring and knowledgeable and considered them to be more of a leader compared to those who struck the submissive pose. “The findings show that if women can overcome their cultural conditioning and communicate using a stringer style, it could significantly increase their impact and influence and overall success in the workplace. Gender should never be a barrier to your ideas being heard,” Newman was quoted saying in a Daily Mail report. READ MORE: Jo-Ann De Wet: the first female Director of Operations at McDonald’s SA If you’re unsure about what the power pose looks like, Newman says think of celebrities the likes of Beyoncé and Angelina Jolie and the powerful poses they strike that give them such presence. “Instead of having a world led by people who are accidentally good speakers, we could have a world led by people who have the best ideas and know how to express them, whatever their sex,” he says. So ladies, get in front of your mirrors and get working on perfecting that power pose. Additional reporting by Daily Mail