Snapchat owners Snap Inc are feeling the heat after posting an advert that made light of domestic violence issues which surfaced when she was in a relationship with Chris Brown Rihanna put the social media platform on blast for asking consumers whether they would rather slap Rihanna or punch Chris Brown. The question appeared in an advert for the mobile game, ‘Would You Rather’, which featured an image of the pop star. The advert, which has since been pulled, received widespread condemnation for trivialising an issue that Rihanna herself was a victim of, and for essentially making fun of every person who has ever been a victim of domestic abuse. READ MORE: Rihanna crowned queen of music streams “Now Snapchat I know you already know you ain’t my fav app out there! But, I’m just trying to figure out what the point was with this mess! I’d love to call ignorance, but I know you ain’t dumb,” she said in a statement issued on Instagram on Thursday. “You spent money to animate something that would bring intentional shame to DV (domestic violence) victims and made a joke of it!!! This isn’t about my personal feelings because I don’t have much of them…but all the women, children and men that have been victims of DV in the past and especially the ones who haven’t made it out yet,” Rihanna continued. In 2009, Brown pleaded guilty to charges of assault laid against him by the Needed Me singer. The incident took place just hours ahead of the Grammy Awards that year and led to both stars cancelling their scheduled performances at the awards show. READ MORE: Is Rihanna launching a lingerie line? While Snapchat has apologised for what it’s calling a “disgusting” ad, it’s done very little to calm tempers, with Snap Inc shares – the company’s owners – falling 3,64% on Thursday. A spokesperson for Snap Inc said that the matter would be investigated. “This advertisement is disgusting and never should have appeared on our service,” the spokesperson said. “We are so sorry we made the terrible mistake of allowing it through our review process. We are investigating how that happened so that we can make sure it never happens again.”