Mzansi Magic and Ndalo Pictures, in association with 4th STREET Wines (the fastest-growing wine brand in the world), are proud to bring South Africa’s first-ever version of Project Runway to local screens Mzansi Magic and Ndalo Pictures in association with 4th STREET Wines (the fastest-growing wine brand in the world) are proud to bring South Africa’s first-ever version of Project Runway to local screens. Entries are officially open but time is running short. Read more: Our favourite looks from this year’s SA Fashion Week With just four weeks left for aspiring South African designers to enter, here are four reasons why you should do so before it’s too late; It’s life -hanging. Nothing changes life quite as breathlessly fast as a reality show like Project Runway. People all over the country will see who you are. They’ll be talking about you, watching you. You’ll learn, you’ll grow. You’ll meet amazing people. You’ll be given keys that could open doors you’ve never even dreamed of. You get your own mentor. Imagine having a mentor who could inspire, guide, support and gently nudge you towards finding your own voice as a designer. Well, that’s exactly the kind of mentorship you get on Project Runway. You could surprise yourself. The challenges are designed to separate the hopefuls from the icons in a push for brilliance. If you’re not shy to create something runway-perfect from candy or newspaper or even potato sacks, you could well be ready to shine. Paris Fashion Week 2019. Paris Fashion Week! That’s where you get to showcase as a pop-up in February 2019 if you win. That means you get to be part of one of the “Big 4”. To rub shoulders with fashion designers from all over the world. And you will still get your designs showcased in Edgars stores for three months! Read more: Paris Fashion Week street styles we just can’t get over Will you make the cut? Almost time to find out… Entries are open on mzansimagic.tv/projectrunway Project Runway SA will air on Mzansi Magic, channel 161, on DStv in July this year, in association with headline sponsor 4th STREET Wines. Other sponsors include Edgars (apparel and beauty), TRESemmé (haircare), Menlyn Park Shopping Centre (venue) and Lexus (exclusive luxury auto marketing partner). For more information, visit: projectrunwaysa.com and follow us on;
Facebook: facebook.com/ProjectRunwaySouthAfrica/
Instagram: instagram.com/projectrunwaysa/
Twitter: twitter.com/projectrunwaysa