It is a great feeling to be promoted at work, but moving up isn't a walk in the park If you want to excel in this new role, be careful not to fall into one of these four predictable post-promotion traps Changes don’t really happen overnight when you’ve just been promoted. It may take a while before you will see a measurable difference in the work you’re given or even the time you have to take on new tasks. At some point, you may be required to complete projects you were working on your previous role. Until then, you may just have to continue your work as you did before your promotion. In order to get a head start in your new role, you can ask someone you admire or someone in a similar position as yours, how they have dealt with this kind of transition in their career. READ MORE: Should you take that promotion? Suddenly feeling like you are the best thing to ever happen to your company, expecting applause for all your big ideas and subordinates to jump out of the way when you walk down the hall. This kind of arrogance often make people resent you – and your direct reports do not want to do what you ask. Muse.com advises you to stay humble and curious, and focus on how you can succeed as a team, rather than on your own. Apparently, it is typical to have recruiters knocking on your doorstep, or rather your LinkedIn once you change your status. Although this could be admiring you may need to be careful. People who supported your promotion expect more focus and energy from you. Sneaking out to take a call from a headhunter can be a time waster and an energy drain, and if you get caught, you’re risking losing the credibility you worked so hard for. Stay focus on your new role and confirm for your boss that they made the right decision by supporting your upward mobility. READ MORE: How over-achievers position themselves for promotions Too often, promotions come with a salary increase, if that’s the case, go ahead and reward yourself with a little treat you’ve been dreaming about. But be the responsible adult and make sure some of the extra cash is going toward an emergency fund. No matter what your level of income, the earlier you start to save for later on in life, the better. It is exciting to celebrate your new promotion but remind yourself to be a little patience, stay focused and humble, and be wise with your new responsibility. Source: TheMuse.com 