The ANC welcomed a raid by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (known as the Hawks) of the offices of North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo and various provincial departments “Our position as the ANC is that this process must be continue without fear or favour, as clearly indicated in the Setsokotsane 10 by 10 campaigns that the provincial government has been holding since last year,” said acting provincial Secretary Sussana Dantjie. Setsokotsane is an all-inclusive radical intervention programme by the North West provincial government to respond to the problems of poverty, unemployment and inequality. Dantjie said they further commend the office of the Premier and all provincial government departments for their determination to assist the Hawks in their investigation to deal harshly with greed, crime and corruption. “Over a period, we have been observing worrisome signals of a total political onslaught in the province and we hope that this development does not constitute part of this observation.” The Hawks seized several documents from different offices in the officer of the Premier during the raid. READ MORE: Zuma to join ANC “on the ground” in 2019 “The Hawks in the North West have conducted a search and seizure operation at the offices of the North West Premier today [Thursday]. The operation follows investigations in relation to alleged maladministration, fraud and corruption. The monetary value involved is approximately R160 million,” said Hawks spokesperson Captain Tlangelani Rikhotso. Rikhotso said several documents, which would assist in the ongoing probe, were seized from different offices. “No arrests were effected at this stage pending further investigation. This is an ongoing probe and we cannot divulge any further information investigations continue,” she said. The Hawks raid was related to payments made to Nepo Data Dynamics. The company has a three-year contract to do IT and marketing transformation programmes for the provincial government. Mahumapelo, who is also the provincial Chairperson of the ANC in North West, earlier welcomed the raid. READ MORE: ANC to force Zuma out via motion of no confidence on Thursday He said the provincial government had instituted various ongoing investigations such as the Special Investigative Unit in the Department of Public Works and Roads; as well as forensic investigations in the Departments of Health, Local Government and Human Settlements. He said they also instituted investigations in other departments and some of the municipalities. “It is important for all of us, irrespective of our positions within government and elsewhere, to allow our offices to be subjected to the rule of law. We are fully cooperating with the Hawks and all other law enforcement agencies to strengthen the values of democracy in our republic,” he said. “As soon as all other forensic investigations are completed, we will accordingly inform the people of the province and South Africa at large.” – African News Agency