A controversial Heineken advert has put the spotlight on advertising companies using racism to gain attention and hits An advert by Heineken has since been pulled off the site, following criticism on social media, with users calling it a “racist commercial” The ad features a bartender on a rooftop bar spotting a woman across the room and sliding a beer over to her.  The beer passes through several black people before arriving at the light skin woman, with the tagline: “Sometimes lighter is better”. American hip-hop star Chance the Rapper started the conversation on social media when he slammed Heineken for its “racist ads”. READ MORE: Did the EFF take it too far with H&M protests? “I think some companies are purposely putting out noticeable racist ads so they can get more views. And that sh*t  is racist/bogus so I guess I shouldn’t help by posting about it. But I’m going to say though, the ‘Sometimes lighter is better’ Heineken commercial is terribly racist,” he wrote. CNN Money reports that the company has pulled the advert from TV and the Internet. The company’s US spokesperson Bjorn Trowery told the site that while they feel the ad is referencing Heineken Light beer, and that light beer is better than other high-calorie options – it missed the mark. “We are taking the feedback to heart and will use this to influence future campaigns,” Trowery was quoted as saying. This backlash against Heineken follows missteps by other brands over the representation of blacks. In January this year, H&M caused a huge outcry by using a black child to model a hoodie with a “Coolest monkey in the jungle” slogan. The retailer received a backlash all over the world, with EFF supporters in South Africa protesting at several stores in Gauteng, Limpopo and the Western Cape. READ MORE: H&M appoints global diversity leader after offensive hoodie debacle H&M then apologised and remove the item from its website. Last year Dove apologised for a Facebook post promoting its body wash that featured a three-second GIF of a black woman removing a dark brown T-shirt to reveal a white woman. The advert was introduced with the line: “Ready for a Dove Shower.” Pepsi also caused a public outcry last year. The company pulled a controversial ad staring Kendall Jenner after it was accused of appropriating the Black Lives Matter movement and using social justice to sell soda. Additional reporting by CNN Money and Essence 