South African Football Association (Safa) President Danny Jordaan is accused of raping musician and former ANC MP Jennifer Ferguson Almost five months after she publicly accused Jordaan of sexually assaulting her in a hotel in Port Elizabeth 24 years ago, Ferguson has reiterated that other victims of sexual abuse will be empowered to speak out by her actions. The Citizen reports that Jordaan has since denied the allegations but stated that he welcomes the criminal proceedings. Ferguson took to Facebook to motivate her decision. She wrote on social media that after many months of consideration, consultations and attempts to mediate according to principles of restorative justice as embodied by the Truth and Reconciliation process, she decided to lay a charge of rape against Jordaan. “I do this in the hope that other victims of sexual abuse will be empowered to speak out and act. I do this and ask for your support prayerful, in thought or action for all those affected by his sexual misconduct. “I also am aware of the distress his family must be experiencing and express my sadness that they are inevitably affected,” she wrote. READ MORE: Jordaan blames his silence on empathy for victims of gender-based violence Gauteng police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini confirmed to News24 that a case was opened in Parkview, Johannesburg, and that it had been transferred to Port Elizabeth, where the alleged incident took place. She told City Press that she had struggled for years to decide what to do about the incident. “When I named Danny Jordaan, it was from a place beyond choice. It was, of course, the #MeToo window; it shocked me. I initially didn’t name him, but I gave the details of somebody in a high position,” she was quoted as saying. Last year, Ferguson described her initial meeting with the former Mayor of Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality on her blog. She wrote that the alleged incident must have been over in about 20 seconds but felt like a lifetime. “As I recall, there were not many other women present. It was a successful performance and as I was leaving, a man struck up a conversation with me. “He was pleasant and entertaining. Danny Jordaan. I accepted his invitation to join him for a drink at the bar, but said I needed to go up to my suite and change from my performance dress. READ MORE: Top sports administrator accused of rape “He joined me in the lift and said he would wait for me. I felt a little uneasy as he entered my suite, but beckoned him into the lounge and asked him to wait there while I changed. “I entered my bedroom, closed the door and began to change. A few minutes later, the door opened and he entered and without a word grabbed me and forced me onto the bed from behind,” she wrote. Additional reporting by The Citizen and City Press