Ever wondered what would make your anti-ageing serum work better or your sunscreen look less oily on your skin? We give you a few beauty products that work well together so you can get the most out of your beauty essentials Bacon and eggs, tables and chairs, popcorn and candy. Many items are sold in pairs because they work best that way and yet our beauty products aren’t sold in the same way. We give you 10 beauty products that work better in pairs, because combining products with ingredients that work well together can give your beauty regime a real boost and help you achieve better results. Sunscreen + Primer This is a quick beauty hack that has immediate results and leaves your skin feeling soft and luxurious. If you love your sunscreen – protection is absolutely necessary for preventing premature ageing and cancer – but find that using a high SPF sunscreen leaves your skin looking greasy, apply your primer over it for the matte finish you’re after. This will not diminish the effectiveness of your sunscreen at all – instead, it will give you a perfect finish (good primers help to conceal pores as well) after sunscreen use when you aren’t wearing makeup, as well as act as a great base for you to begin applying your makeup. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  Celltone SPF 50 UVA and UVB sunscreen, R200; Smashbox Photo Finish Foundation Primer, R470 Correcting primer + Hydrating mist Want to go completely bare, but still have even beautiful skin? It’s as easy as a quick correction and an even quicker spritz of your hydrating moisture to give you glowing, moist skin without the pesky eyebags and dark spots that come with going au naturelle.  DESTINY RECOMMENDS: Eau Thermale Avène Thermal Spring Water, R150; Clarins SOS Correcting Primer, R395 Hydrating Face Mask + Oil Serum Dealing with dehydrated or seasonally dry skin? Give your skin a boost with this skin-rejuvenating combo that will help take your skin from dry and flaky to glowing and well-maintained. Best done at night, apply a hydrating face mask to your skin for a 20-minute pamper session before removing your mask to apply an oil serum over your face which will lock in moisture and all the other amazing ingredients your mask has pumped into your skin. The trick to great hydration is finding a mask with hyaluronic acid in it to hold water to your skin. The science behind this: 1 HA molecule can hold 1 000 times its weight in water, making hyaluronic acid your dehydrated skin’s best friend. Oil seals in this moisture, allowing your skin to absorb moisture and the oil’s essential ingredients. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  DESTINY RECOMMENDS: Skin Republic Hyaluronic Acid + Collagen Face Mask, R40; INGLOT Dream Drop Face Oil, R499 Night Balm + Anti-Ageing Skincare The best time to use most of your anti-ageing products is at night, especially because products usually contain retinol, which can cause sun sensitivity. Night-time routines can pack an even bigger punch when you use products that have ingredients that work well together and both work to do the same thing – with anti-ageing, that means eliminating wrinkles and boosting collagen production while rejuvenating skin. Apply a firming serum to your skin to target wrinkles, then apply a night balm over it to lock in moisture as well as further inject anti-ageing ingredients like retinaldehyde into your skin, which will stimulate cell renewal. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  Eau Thermale Avène PhysioLift Night Smoothing and Regenerating Balm, R460; Perricone MD High Potency Face Firming Activator, R1 850 Scented Moisturiser + Fragrance How does one boost the longevity of one’s scent? Looking to layer two complementary scents for a unique fragrance signature? Apply a scented moisturiser to your skin to carry a scent all over your body, before spritzing a different but complementary fragrance minimally over your pulse points: wrists, inner elbow, behind your ears and at the bottom of your neck. Woody scents are best for warming up your fragrance cupboard, making them perfect for cold days and nights. When looking to make your woody scent work for you during the day, layer it with a citrus scent for a hint of freshness. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  Tom Ford Neroli Portofino Body Moisturiser, R1 100; Marc Jacobs Decadence Rouge Noir EDP, R 1685 Main Image Credits Photography: Ingrid Alice Irsigle Production: Karin Orzol