A serendipitous series of events led Lindani Dhlamini to becoming a chartered accountant and to leading one of SA’s top black-owned advisory firms – SekelaXabiso. Now nothing can hold her back Dhlamini originally intended to become a doctor, but wasn’t accepted into medical school. So she decided to enrol for a BSc instead and become a computer programmer. “There wasn’t much career guidance back then – and there’s still not much of it today. Not being able to pursue my first choice left me at a total loss, but I was determined to finish the degree I started instead, because that’s who I am,” she says. She had no idea what to expect when she started her first job at an insurance company at the age of 21. “Going into the Systems Department with my degree, I thought I knew it all. But reality hit – and it was a shock. My immediate boss and his next in command had been there for years and weren’t going anywhere – there was no room for progress. I knew this wasn’t what I wanted. Looking at the company’s top dog, a chartered accountant in his big, fancy office, I wanted to be that person. I asked him how to make it happen, he offered some career advice and I was off.” Dhlamini duly enrolled at the University of Cape Town for a year-long BCom conversion course, followed by a CTA – a post-graduate course in accounting – and then began her articles at Deloitte in 2000. THE EARLY YEARS The environment at Deloitte fuelled her entrepreneurial dreams, as she was based in Transactional Support Services for Corporate Finance, but working specifically with business-owners. “The idea of starting something from nothing really appealed to me. I learnt how deals were put together, how organisations identify value and how it can be packaged and sold to another organisation. That ignited my passion for developing black women, black professionals and creating a culture of black excellence.” After completing her articles, Dhlamini and her colleague and friend, Ndumi Medupe, started Xabiso Chartered Accountants in 2003. “We were young, ignorant and arrogant!” she laughs. “We thought that being CAs and good at what we did would bring clients walking into our firm. The reality was completely different. We had no experience as a company and no track record.” Determined to overcome their lack of institutional know-how and capacity, the resourceful pair partnered with big, established firms so that they could learn how to tackle big audits.“At the time there was a lot of talk about supporting black professionals, especially woman- and
youth-owned firms, and we ticked all those boxes,” she recalls. These partnerships expanded their experience and just five years later, they’d built up an impressive portfolio of clients, including a big public organisation: the SA Maritime Authority. In around 2008 Medupe withdrew from the business, leaving Dhlamini to assume the reins alone. By 2012, the firm’s revenue was R100 million, with a staff complement of 80. It was then that she decided to partner with Abel Dlamini and his firm, Sekela. The two organisations had come up at the same time and had even worked on larger audits together. Dlamini’s firm was of a similar size, boasting R120 million in revenue with a staff complement
of 100.
“We shared a vision of creating black excellence and overturning the misperception in the market that black people aren’t good enough. We wanted to excel and compete with our international counterparts,” says Dhlamini.