Over the past few years, Castle Lite has played a role in creating a perception that beer is only for men. Recently, however, the brand has taken a long hard look at the role has played in creating this stereotype Like many brands, Castle Lite often depicts men in leading roles in its ads, while women are objectified and portrayed as passive, as if they are men’s accessories. One example of this is an ad featuring international hip-hop star Rick Ross. It tells the story of a delivery guy who finds himself in a tricky situation as he’s approached by women who want to join a party on a yacht. He has to play cool when approached by the international musician. The South African beer brand has now promised to do better and take accountability for the role it’s played in reinforcing these gender stereotypes. Castle Lite Platforms Marketing Manager Africa Silke Bucker says the brand’s adverts and communications will never again degrade or objectify women. “We are committing, as Castle Lite, to recognise that women are not just accessories to men – they sit at the corporate board table and at the table at the pub too. “We will, instead, celebrate the more than one million women who drink Castle Lite and treat them with the respect they deserve in all of our brand communications moving forward,” she says. The recent #HoldMyBeer, which trended on social media and on International Women’s Day, has pushed this brand to stop objectifying women. READ MORE: Advice for women navigating male-dominated waters “We have been thinking about this for a while and, when #HoldMyBeer surfaced on social media, we realised that the time is now. International Women’s Day seemed like the appropriate time to take accountability for the role we played in creating the stereotype that beer is for men only, and to promise to do things better moving forward,” says Bucker. Castle Light acknowledged that over the years, its marketing communications have at times objectified women and also diminished their role as consumers and beer drinkers. The brand says that it’s likely contributed to the harsh judgement that women often receive for drinking beer. “There is a lot that won’t change; our great product, our innovations and our passion for music.  But what you will see is women in Castle Lite ads playing an equal leading role with men, more women on our concert stages and no more disrespect,” Bucker says. READ MORE: Glass ceiling cracking too slowly for women: report Castle Light says it recognises that women and men are equal and should be portrayed as such, and the brand commits to playing an active role in shaping culture. 