The SA Football Association (Safa) stands firmly behind its President Danny Jordan, who has been accused of raping former ANC MP Jennifer Ferguson What do former President Jacob Zuma and Safa President Danny Jordan have in common? They have both been subjected to an unfair trial by media. This is according to Safa’s NEC, which on Thursday announced its support of Jordaan, calling on the public to bear in mind that “everyone is innocent until proven guilty”. “We have seen in the past with former state President Jacob Zuma that he has faced a trial by media and it is likely the same with Mr Jordaan,” Safa NEC member Poobalan Govindasamy was quoted saying in an EWN report. He went on to raise questions about Ferguson’s claim, saying her version of events had changed from initial accounts. READ MORE: Safa chief Jordaan faces rape charge “We have noted the statements made by Ms Ferguson and we believe that they are different to those she made initially in her claim against Mr Jordaan,” he said. Ferguson, who made the allegation public for the first time late last year, claims Jordaan raped her in a Port Elizabeth hotel room in 1994. Ferguson opened a case of rape against Jordaan at the weekend after initially giving him the opportunity to work it out out of court through a mediative process, but he declined the offer. “I do this in the hope that other victims of sexual abuse will be empowered to speak out and act. I do this and ask for your support prayerful, in thought or action for all those affected by his sexual misconduct. “I also am aware of the distress his family must be experiencing and express my sadness that they are inevitably affected,” she wrote in a Facebook post after laying criminal charges against Jordaan. Last year, Ferguson described her initial meeting with the former Mayor of Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality on her blog. READ MORE: Top sports administrator accused of rape She wrote that the alleged incident must have been over in about 20 seconds, but felt like a lifetime. “As I recall, there were not many other women present. It was a successful performance and as I was leaving, a man struck up a conversation with me. “He was pleasant and entertaining. Danny Jordaan. I accepted his invitation to join him for a drink at the bar, but said I needed to go up to my suite and change from my performance dress. “He joined me in the lift and said he would wait for me. I felt a little uneasy as he entered my suite, but beckoned him into the lounge and asked him to wait there while I changed. “I entered my bedroom, closed the door and began to change. A few minutes later, the door opened and he entered and without a word grabbed me and forced me onto the bed from behind,” she wrote. Jordaan has welcomed the opportunity to prove his innocence.