Here's how to prevent falling victim to potential SA Revenue Service (Sars) debt collection scams Faced with a R16,6 billion tax deficit in the current financial year, Sars has appointed eight external debt collectors in a bid to recoup some of this money owed to the taxman. While a necessary intervention, Colien de Villiers, a tax administrator at CAP Chartered Accountants, says it leaves the door wide open for scammers to prey on taxpayers. “Unfortunately, we do anticipate some illegal activity around this announcement, with fake debt collection agents contacting people claiming to be from one of the listed agencies. Because of this, our strong advice is to not give any of your personal information to them – and do not confirm any information that they provide over the phone,” he advises. READ MORE: A stern warning to small business! Rather, if you are ever contacted by someone purporting to be a Sars debt collector, make sure that you get the collection agent to send you, in writing, all the relevant information pertaining to the alleged debt, as well as the name and contact details of both the agent and the agency in writing. “This information and any other communications (letters, emails or emails) received from any agency claiming to collect outstanding Sars debt must then be forwarded to your tax practitioner and you tax practitioner can contact the agency to verify their credentials and confirm the validity of any outstanding Sars debt,” advises de Villiers. It’s important to remember that any debt owed to Sars can only be paid directly to the taxman and not to the collection agency, so if you receive a request to pay the money to any account other than Sars’ account, warning bells should be ringing. “Under no circumstances should debtors pay money directly to the debt collection agency. All outstanding tax duties must only be paid directly to Sars via authorised payment channels,” he says. READ MORE: Beware of new tax scam, Sars warns small businesses Below are the eight authorised debt collector agencies working with Sars: If you have any questions, contact Sars national contact centre at 0800 00 7277.