Looking for that perfect, end-of-the-month date night look? Jourdan Dunn's dark and chic New York Fashion Week makeup is our go-to for a glam night out Looking for that perfect, end-of-the-month date night look? Jourdan Dunn’s dark and chic New York Fashion Week makeup is our go-to for a glam night out. English model Jourdan Dunn worked an effortless dark lip look with sleek straight hair, while attending Jonathan Simkhai’s NYFW Autumn/Winter show and we’re loving how this sophisticated yet fun look can work for date night or a night out on the town with your girls. Lips: Perfect Dunn’s dark lip by exfoliating your lips with a DIY honey and sugar exfoliator – as flaking skin will show through your makeup – then outline and fill your lips with a lip pencil a shade darker than the lipstick you will be wearing, as this will help your lipstick last longer, as well as prevent a glossy lipstick from bleeding. If your lipstick is matte, using a pencil will help you even out the colour and smooth out the look around your lips. Finally apply a dark red, brown or purple lipstick to your lips for a vampy, night look. DESTINY recommends:  Maybelline New York Superstar Matte Ink Lipstick in Escapist, R170 Eyes: For a sophisticated wide eye, take a page out of Dunn’s book by rocking a winged-liner paired with lots of lash. Create your winged eyeliner look by using a creamy or liquid eyeliner as these textures are easier to work with. Apply your mascara last so as to prevent any product smudging around your eyes and remember to work your mascara through from the bottom of your lashes to the top in a “Z” motion so as to best separate your lashes. DESTINY recommends:    L’Oréal Infallible Eyeliner in Night Day Black, R160  Maybelline Colossal Big Shot Mascara in Black Hair: Get Dunn’s sleek hairstyle by applying a heat-protecting serum to your straight wig or weave before straightening it for a polished, straight ‘do. Use a holding spray to prevent fly-aways and you’re good to go! DESTINY recommends:  Garnier Ultimate Blends Hair Spray, The Sleek Protector