MultiChoice says over 60 groups have registered interest in starting a new local South African TV news channel on DStv to replace ANN7, which will be removed at the end of August The new 24-hour TV news channel will have to compete against eMedia Investments’ eNCA (DStv 403) and the South African public broadcaster’s SABC News (DStv 404) will need to be owned, managed and operated by an independent black-owned entity. While globally, the appetite to start linear TV news channels that often take very long to turn profitable, if ever, has waned over the past decade, MultiChoice wants one more local news channel for DStv. Requirements for the new channel The requirements for the new TV news channel include some tall orders. MultiChoice says it will have to be “a South African, predominantly English TV news channel that takes into account the history, diversity of cultural background, languages and socio-economic circumstances in South Africa” and will have to broadcast 24 hours per day. It will have to provide “anchor-based, live broadcasts in the style of Al Jazeera, CNN, Sky News, eNCA, SABC News and others” and will have to “specifically focus on national, regional, local and African news, actuality, current affairs and sport with some focus on international affairs”. READ MORE: MultiChoice, union working to mitigate ANN7 job losses Besides doing news, the channel will also have to “focus on training and development of news and broadcast industry personnel” and “foster a strong ownership mentality with employees and partners through mechanisms such as employee equity and/or incentive schemes.” The TV news channel will be paid by MultiChoice as part of a carriage agreement to provide the content, but MultiChoice says the channel will have to “be independent, non-partisan, unbiased and critical – MultiChoice will have no editorial control or ownership”. While the channel will be widely distributed across several DStv subscription tiers and packages, enabling it to gain exposure to a big audience and therefore be able to run advertising, the channel will also have to look at getting income from other sources. “We’re delighted and overwhelmed at the response,” says Calvo Mawela, MultiChoice South Africa CEO, in response to the number of interested parties. READ MORE: ANN7 served as front to defraud the state – EFF “We’re encouraged that we’ll be able to offer South Africans another local news channel, which will add to the diversity and plurality of news on DStv,” says Mawela. MultiChoice is now opening the tender process and all of the 60 parties will be getting a link to respond to a Request for Proposal (ROP) on an online platform. The process will close on 30 April 2018. MultiChoice says that after this date, the evaluation process will kick off and the successful bidder will be notified before 31 July. People who are still interested to register their intention to bid, have until 20 April 2018 to do so and can visit: multichoice.co.za. An expensive operation People who want to start up a new 24-hour TV news channel should do their homework and come up with a thorough and detailed business plan, since a sustainable TV news channel is one of the most notoriously difficult type of channels to launch and is fraught with difficulties and challenges. READ MORE: MultiChoice must release ANN7 contracts – DA Beyond technical, editorial staff and a raft of producers, engineers and graphic artists, a TV news channel needs a studio, post production editing suites, a playout system and servers and an electronic news production system to organise stories and video link systems. Prior to its launch in May 2010, DStv challenger TopTV – since rebranded as StarSat – promised a local 24-hour TV news channel, but suddenly backtracked. SABC News International, the SABC’s first attempt at a 24-hour TV news channel before it was replaced by SABC News was a shocking disaster and abruptly ended after just three years at the end of March 2010, bleeding millions of rand. Even long-established, highly prized, credible TV news channels are having a hard time cutting it. Sky News (DStv 402) from Sky in the UK isn’t profitable and has been a loss-making TV news channel for years. The BBC has several times until the recent past revisited whether it shouldn’t end its 24-hour news channels on TV due to the exorbitant cost and turn them into digital channels. eNCA, which launched as the eNews Channel in June 2008, will be celebrating its 10th anniversary in June this year, but it’s been tough going for this channel. Although eNCA is the most-watched TV news channel on DStv with the largest news audience share, it didn’t help the channel to make enough money to sustain the type of news and coverage, especially of and from the rest of Africa. The channel, although successful, has gone through several painful cost-cutting exercises that saw it shed staffers, shutter its international bureaus and cancel multiple news and actuality programmes. The new TV news channel will also have to know that it will be entering a very crowded field of established players in terms of TV news providers who are not going to budge to make way for a newbie. – Channel24