After two adjournment, the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday denied convicted racist Vicki Momberg bail pending a leave to appeal application Earlier, Magistrate Pravina Raghoonandan sentenced Momberg to three years’ imprisonment with one year suspended, meaning she would only spend two years in prison. The year suspended on her sentence is on condition she does not repeat the offence. Raghoonandan said Momberg failed to show any remorse for her offensive conduct. Momberg, the first person to be jailed in South Africa for a racist rant, will on Wednesday, 4 April, apply for leave to appeal application. She was captured on video in 2016 repeatedly using the K-word when addressing a black policeman. The constable had been trying to assist her after a smash-and-grab incident. On Wednesday, Advocate Kevin Lawlor for Momberg said it was at the court’s discretion to grant her bail despite the accused being sentenced. READ MORE: Convicted racist Vicki Momberg sentenced to three years in prison State prosecutor Yusuf Baba argued against the bail application prior to an appeal procedure because the court had to apply its mind on whether such appeal had any prospects of success. “We welcome the sentence as the National Prosecuting Authority, as it upholds the bill of rights. This is a landmark case and has set a precedent for other race-related cases,” the authority’s communications manager Phindi Mjonondwane said following proceedings. “It’s time that the hate bill is enforced, this can not go on any further. This is the first time someone asking for assistance was abusive to everybody. The recordings were harsher than the footage itself,” Baba said. “This case warranted direct imprisonment and has proven that the rule of law should be respected,” he said. “People need to watch their tongues when they talk, as there are consequences for your actions. Harsher sentences needed to be given because there are racial incidents on a daily basis.” READ MORE: Vicki Momberg back in court for sentencing “It’s crucial for us to respect one another… people should not be ashamed about bringing forward racial matters,” Mjonondwane said. “In other cases, crimen injuria was coupled with other charges. It’s the first time it’s being sentenced on its own, hence we say it’s a landmark case.” Momberg was found guilty on four counts of crimen injuria. After listening to arguements in favour and against the granting of bail, Raghoonandan, who adjourned the matter twice, ruled against freeing Momberg. In June 2017, the Equality Court awarded damages of R100 000 to Constable Clement Mkhondo for the verbal abuse he suffered from Momberg, who was a realtor at the time. The court said that Momberg was found to have been in a state of mind where she could appreciate the wrongfulness of her actions, and was able to target her abuse at her victims. – African News Agency