If you can design and make your own creations, enter now at: mzansimagic.tv/projectrunway Are you wildly creative, got every stitch down and dreaming of being South Africa’s next hot fashion designer? Mzansi Magic and Ndalo Pictures in association with 4th STREET Wines (the fastest-growing wine brand in the world) are looking for fashion designers who are going to shine as they proudly present South Africa’s first-ever version of Project Runway. So, could it be you? Project Runway SA is looking for 12 South African fashion designers to compete against each other for their big break in the fashion industry. The winner gets to go to Paris Fashion Week in February 2019 to showcase designs as a pop-up. Furthermore, the winner’s designs will be showcased in Edgars stores for three months. Just like the original hit reality show in the US, designers will be challenged to create garments restricted by time, materials, and theme, with designs judged by a panel. There will be drama, there will be challenges and there will be bold pops of local flair. Make no mistake: the expectations are high. And the possibilities? Endless. Previous Project Runway winners have been able to focus on fashion full-time, they’ve featured in numerous magazines, travelled the world showing their work, created their own collections and launched their own fashion lines. Who could resist the opportunity to be a part of all that? So if you can design and make your own creations, enter now at: mzansimagic.tv/projectrunway (see below for full entry criteria). Only the most promising designers will be selected. Those who make the shortlist will then be interviewed telephonically. Those who make the telephonic cut will then need to pass a skills test and go for an on-camera interview. Because it’s not just about your creative voice and talent – personality is everything in the world of fashion. This is your opportunity to claim your spot. Entries close on 28 March 2018. If you’ve been selected for an on-camera interview, you’ll be notified by 2 April 2018. Good luck! Entry criteria: Mzansi Magic, Ndalo Pictures and their production partners Rapid Blue are all geared up to bring the first local version of the series to DStv, channel 161, in July this year, in association with 4th STREET Wines – headline sponsor for Project Runway South Africa 2018. Other sponsors include Edgars (apparel and beauty), TRESemmé (haircare), Menlyn Park Shopping Centre (venue) and Lexus (luxury auto marketing partner).