If you've always dreamed of building your dream home from scratch, here's everything you need to know to make it a reality If you’re lucky enough to own a piece of urban land or you’ve always dreamed of building a house customised to fulfil your every desire, there are a few things that you need to take into consideration when securing financing. Building a house from scratch typically involves securing building finance, which differs somewhat from a traditional home loan, says FNB Home Loans CEO Marius Marais. Governed by the National Credit Act, building finance adheres to the same lending criteria utilised for home loans, there are many more requirements to apply for building finance. In order to apply for building finance, you’ll need a quotation from a National Home Builders Registration Council (NHBRC) registered builder, building plans and a supporting schedule of finishes, as well as the contractor agreement between yourself and your builder. READ MORE: Building a new house in SA costs 30% more than buying one You’ll also be required to put down a 10% deposit that takes the value of the land into consideration. Marais says you could also be requested to pay the contract amount upfront. Furthermore, a minimum 10% deposit which takes into consideration the value of the land and in addition a contract amount may be required upfront. “Once the building loan application has been approved, the land transferred into your name and the  bond registered, there a few important factors that you need to take note of,” he says. READ MORE: How to choose a building contractor Make sure that any contract agreement you sign with the builder is reviewed by a lawyer before you sign. “Should you decide to change the building contractor or make any drastic changes to the original plan, you need to inform your bank. The bank may re-assess the facility and either approve or disapprove the request, based on how it impacts the overall building costs and market value of the property,” he says.