Childhood obesity is on the rise. Here’s how to help your kids cultivate a love of exercise and stay out of the statistics There was a time when kids spent the afternoon chasing each other round the garden, playing hide-and-seek or practising their soccer skills. Nowadays, they’re more likely to spend their leisure hours in front of a screen. And it shows. According to research by the Heart & Stroke Foundation, half of all South Africans aged 15 years and older are classified as obese. Added to this, medicalacademic.co.za states that 20% of girls younger than nine are obese. Compare this with 1980, when just 7% of girls were obese. Further research cited on discovery.co.za reports that almost two in every 10 children is either overweight or obese. A quick look at our lifestyles explains this rapid trajectory. Our children aren’t cycling or walking to school any more, their snacks and meals consist of heavily processed foods which add to the sugar they already consume in large amounts and their activities are far less physical than they were just a few years ago. Small wonder, then, that the Healthy Active Kids SA Report Card 2016 noted: “With overweight and obesity levels continuing to rise among South African children, this has become a major public health concern.” One of the recommendations made by the report is to increase physical activity. The question facing many parents, though, is how to do this. READ MORE: Children at risk for type 2 diabetes For Dr Deepak Patel, a principal clinical specialist and Head of Research at Vitality SA, the answer lies in instilling good habits from an early age. “Many of the factors that lead to obesity are habit-based,” he explains. These aren’t always obvious: for instance, you might think of your tendency to serve dinner in front of TV in terms of convenience, but in later years, this might translate into TV becoming a trigger for overeating – much like a ‘Pavlov’s dog; response. However, just as parents can unwittingly lay the foundation for bad habits, they can also foster good ones, including cultivating a love of physical activity in their offspring. Doing this ensures that your children get the daily hour of moderate or vigorous aerobic physical activity they need to keep fitness levels where they should be. This should be supplemented by muscle- and bone-strengthening activities a further three times a week. Of course, keeping track of this isn’t as easy for kids as it might be for you. After all, it’s not as if they’re logging the number of kilometres they’ve run or counting the yoga classes they’ve attended. So, how can you get them off the couch and on their feet? READ MORE: Too much TV could lead to your child being bullied