Medical practitioners have reportedly warned South African consumers against the use of popular weight loss product, as doing so has landed a number of people in a hospital According to a report by Huffington Post SA, the Society for Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes of South Africa (SEMDSA) has sent a letter to the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA), asking it to attend to the issue of this product as a matter of urgency. SEMDSA reportedly believes there are potentially life-threatening complications which could arise as a consequence of using the Secret Fat Burner. People who used this product – which promises to help you lose weight without the need to go to the gym or diet – presented with symptoms of an overactive thyroid. READ MORE: Weight loss progress According to the report, symptoms include palpitations, anxiety, heat intolerance, aggravation of hypertension and cardiac complications. SEMDSA has apparently conducted lab tests which found that capsules contained hydrochlorothiazide, sibutramine, levothyroxine (T4) and Triiodothyronine (T3) – substances which are not mentioned in the product’s information leaflet. The organisation also indicated that Sibutramine is no longer registered for use in South Africa. Sibutramine was banned in Europe in 2010 after a study found 5 000 people using it for weight loss were more at risk of heart attack‚ stroke or death than the 5 000 given a placebo. It warned that the product has violates laws such as Consumer Protection Act (CPA) of 2008 and Health Professions Act of 1974, as well as the Medicines and Related Substances Act of 1965. Sunday World reports that retailers have been forced to cease sales pending a meeting with the department’s law enforcement officials on Monday. READ MORE: Is what you drink helping or hindering your weight loss? According to the website, all distributors of the weight-loss product have been instructed to stop selling it – but its promotional articles insist the real culprits are those behind a rip-off of the original product. It is still not known who manufactures the Secret Fat Burner sold on the Internet. Sources: Huffington Post SA and Sunday World