The reasons for skin breakouts are varied and go beyond just your hormones There are so many factors that cause irritation to your skin and result in those unsightly breakouts at the most inopportune time. There’s your genetics, the possibility of an overproduction of sebum and clogged pores to name a few common causes, but there are also a few other surprising culprits that could be behind your latest breakout. Your hair products If you have discovered a breakout along your hairline it could be as a result of various sulphates and silicones contained in some shampoos, conditioners, hairsprays and oils. READ MORE: How to deal with breakouts in your 30s Celltone suggests that you wash your face after you finish washing your hair. This way you’ll make sure that any build up around your face is removed completely. You pick at your pimples Who isn’t guilty of picking at a pimple at least once in their life? While some of us might do it a lot more than we’d like to admit, it’s time to stop the bad habit because the more you pick, the worse you make it. When you pop a pimple you might be clearing the bacteria clogged up in the pimple, but by popping the pimple you’re also creating an open wound where new germs can make their way into the wound. Resist the urge to squeeze and let your skin release the bacteria on its own. You don’t shower after working out Getting rid of the sweat buildup on your face after working out is extremely important and shouldn’t be skipped. If you don’t have the time to wash your face then also ensure that you carry some wet wipes with you. READ MORE: All you need to know about adult acne “When sweat mixes with makeup from the night before or excess oil on your skin, you’ve got yourself a breeding ground for bacteria,” Celltone warns. You’re always touching your face Most women are guilty of doing this. The next time you are tempted to touch your face, take a moment to think about all the things your hands have touched that day and all the bacteria that you’re transferring onto the most sensitive skin on your body. This should be enough of deterrent. You’re drying out your skin with products “Using too many skincare products that contain salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide dry out your skin. Your skin needs to produce more sebum to combat the dryness, which ends up actually causing more breakouts,” Celltone advises. Rather consider using a focused spot treatment that’s applied only on the problem area in order to prevent drying out your whole face. 