International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu, on Thursday issued a diplomatic démarche to the Australian High Commissioner to South Africa demanding a retractions of comments made by the country's home affairs minister on land distribution in SA. Sisulu issued Australian High Commissioner to South Africa, Adam McCarthy the diplomatic démarche over the comments made by Australian Home Affairs Minister, Peter Dutton, that South Africans “deserved special attention” due to “horrific circumstances”. “It was communicated to the High Commissioner that the South African Government is offended by the statements which have been attributed to the Australian Home Affairs Minister and a full retraction is expected,” the department of international relations and cooperation (Dirco) said in a statement. “The High Commissioner who was accompanied by his Deputy High Commissioner undertook to immediately communicate with the Australian Government to convey the message from the Minister and South African Government.” According to international reports, Dutton said white South African farmers “deserved special attention” from Australia due to the “horrific circumstances” of land seizures and violence. READ MORE: SA gov criticises Australia’s response to land debate He said his department was “examining a range of methods to fast-track their path to Australia” on humanitarian or other visa programs. On Wednesday, Sisulu responded to Dutton’s remarks, saying that the South African government would be guided by the country’s Constitution on land reform and expropriation without compensation. “We regret that the Australian Government chose not to use the available diplomatic channels to raise concerns or to seek clarification on the land redistribution process in South Africa. Those channels remain open and available for all Governments to engage with the South African Government,” Dirco said in a statement at the time, adding that it was engaging with the Australian government on this matter. “We call on organisations such as AfriForum that are spreading incorrect information sowing panic and fear to refrain from doing so. The South African government has been very clear and transparent on a land reform process and the matter is now before Parliament (sic).” READ MORE: Lindiwe Sisulu ‘feels guilty’ for not supporting Makhosi Khoza On 16 February, Ramaphosa told the National Assembly: “We are determined that expropriation without compensation should be implemented in a way that increases agricultural production, improves food security and ensure that the land is returned to those from whom it was taken under colonialism and apartheid. “Government will undertake a process of consultation to determine the modalities of the implementation of this resolution.” He has mooted faster land reform as part of a drive to boost the agriculture sector. The ruling party, the African National Congress, adopted a resolution at its December elective conference where Ramaphosa became party leader to move beyond the willing seller, willing buyer principle to seize land without compensation in certain circumstances. On 4 March, Sisulu said that there was no need to “panic or be alarmist” over the expropriation of land without compensation process. READ MORE: Lindiwe Sisulu dodged two assassination threats – report In a statement, Sisulu said she had noted a number of international organisations and individuals commenting on the parliamentary processes in South Africa in relation to land distribution. “There is no need to panic or be alarmist. The President [Ramaphosa] has already said in parliament and in a number of public platforms while addressing various stakeholders that there is no need to panic; that the matter is being handled properly for the benefit of all South Africans; that views and concerns of all South African stakeholders will be considered during the parliamentary processes; and that parliament will take a decision for the benefit of all South Africans. “There is a parliamentary process underway and all stakeholders, domestic and international, must respect that process and also take advantage of that process to make their input. The president remains committed to engage all stakeholders during this process. “The international community played an important role in the fight against apartheid and all its repressive and discriminatory policies. We invite members of the international community to continue supporting our efforts to reverse the legacy of apartheid,” she said. – African News Agency