Children younger than 12 can consent to have an HIV test if they have sufficient maturity to understand what they are consenting to, but disclosing their results without their consent constitutes an offence Talking to Talk Radio 702’s Stephen Grootes, Senior Researcher at the Children’s Institute University of Cape Town Dr Stefanie Rohrs said it is a breach of privacy and confidentiality to reveal someone’s HIV status without their consent. This follows an incident in Port Elizabeth in which children as young as 12 years old were tested and allegedly told their status in front of their classmates. Rohrs said the Children’s Act makes a very clear provision on the confidentiality of HIV test results for children. READ MORE: Contraceptive injection increases HIV risk by 40% “This will constitute an offence under Children’s Act if the results have been in fact disclosed without the consent of the children,” she said. Grootes asked how old the child would have to be to give permission for testing. “This was reformed through the Children’s Act. For many medical procedures, including the HIV test, the age of consent for children is now 12 years. “Children’s Act is trying to go with the international trend of recognising children’s evolving capacity and child autonomy to make this decision. A child who is 12 years or older can consent – without the need for parental consent – to have an HIV test,” she said. Rohrs said in terms of the HIV test, the Children’s Act further states that even children younger than 12 years can consent to have an HIV test if they have sufficient maturity to understand what they are consenting to. She said the other intention was to ensure that children can be tested for HIV even when parents don’t want them to test. READ MORE: At-home HIV testing gets the green light “Obviously you would have to give that child proper counselling before the test. You can only test if the child has been sufficiently counselled on the risk and benefits and when during that counselling the healthcare worker, whoever is qualified to do this, then assessed that the child is sufficiently mature to what they consent to,” she said. She said the law doesn’t explicitly state if a document has to be signed before the test, but it has to be written consent. 