[FEATURED] The Clicks Curls expo in Johannesburg is all about embracing your hair as it is No matter the type of hair you have, wear it as if it is your very own crown. As a beauty retailer, Clicks is excited to present the Clicks Curls expo at The Galleria in Sandton on 24-25 March. The event is dedicated to all curly haired women (ethnic and naturalistas) – and celebrates waves, curls and coils! “I love my hair because it’s a reflection of my soul. It’s dense, it’s kinky, it’s soft, it’s textured, it’s difficult, it’s easy and it’s fun,” says Black-ish actress Tracee Ellis Ross. Clicks Curls will feature the best of local and international natural hair brands, such as Shea Moisture, Aunt Jackie’s Curls and Coils, Cantu, AfroBotanics, TRESemmé, Carol’s Daughter and Dark & Lovely Au Naturale. Hosted by Enhle Mbali and Siv Ngesi, there will be live hair demos, industry expertise, music and food on offer. There’ll also be much conversation about the love of curly hair. The first 700 tickets sold will be accompanied by a goodie bag valued at R1 000 – a curly girl’s dream come true!  Event details: Venue: The Galleria, Sandton
Time: Doors open at 9am
Tickets: Tickets are available for R120 each at webtickets.co.za
Free admission for children under 12. THE PRIZE: One lucky DestinyConnect.com user could stand a chance to win a set of double-tickets, including two hampers to the value of R1 500! TO ENTER: Simply submit your details on the below form before 23 March 2018! Entrants need to be living in Johannesburg to be able to win. The winner’s name will be put on the guest list and he or she will receive her hampers at the event. Join the conversation online using the hashtags #ClicksCurls #ClicksHairConvo Facebook: @ClicksSouthAfrica
Twitter: @Clicks_SA
Instagram: @Clicks_SA *Terms and conditions apply. By entering this competition, you will be automatically registered to receive the DestinyConnect.com Weekly and Insider newsletters, as only newsletter subscribers are eligible to win. Click here to subscribe to our other newsletters.