Simple, easy-to-master recipes that will have everyone's mouths watering on Sunday Ok, don’t panic. The Easter long weekend is fast approaching and we’re willing to guess you’ll have hundreds of family members descending on your home, parties to attend and time to kill. So, it might be time to dust off the electric mixer and get your Martha Stewart on. Here’s the secret; baking doesn’t have to be overly complicated to produce results. The first trick to easy yet impressive baking is to log off of Pinterest. You’re not going to pull it off – and you risk landing up on “Nailed It” memes. Instead, read on for simple, easy-to-master recipes that will have everyone’s mouths watering on Sunday. Good luck! 1: Bunny cream tart For some reason, cream tarts are the must-Instagram food of the moment. Luckily, they’re relatively easy to make and this bunny-shaped one is super-cute. Making the cake dough is as easy as mixing all the ingredients together, while the ganache is a simple cream and melted white chocolate. Get the full recipe from: Loveswah.  2: Easter bunny cupcakes The best thing about these cupcakes is that they can be mixed in a single bowl. Inside are chocolate chip cupcakes and they’re topped with vanilla icing. This backer used a mix of M&Ms, marshmallows and licorice straps to make her bunnies – but feel free to make them your own. The full recipe is from The Cake Mistress.  3: No-bake rice bubble eggs What could be easier than making a treat you don’t even have to bake? Nothing. This is a cute take on the classic Rice Krispies treats. They are composed of butter, marshmallows and the classic cereal. The plastic egg cups and decorations are optional, but they do look a lot nicer when you use them. Get the full recipe at Mud Mates.  Read more: Low-carb No Bake Lemon Cheesecake 4: Savoury goat cheese balls Easter isn’t just about the sweet stuff. These are Stewart’s “egg-shaped goat-cheese balls flavored with caramelised spring onions, purple chive blossoms and pink peppercorns. They’re just the thing for an elegant Easter brunch,” she says. And she should know! They look super-impressive on an Easter table. Get the full recipe here.  Read more: Siba Mtongana lets us in on her latest gig 5: Easter coconut macaroons These little treats are easy to make and the kids love to get involved too. Apparently, they become crispy during baking and have a centre that is soft and chewy. Plus they have a Nutella layer, and it’s finished off with Cadbury Mini Eggs. Here’s how to make them.    