Do you tend to procrastinate? FNB Head of Consumer Education Eunice Sibiya says putting off getting your financial house in order can have long-term consequences If you’re one of those people who tend to put things off until the last minute, you are most likely shooting yourself in the foot as far as your finances are concerned. “While sometimes putting off completing tasks in your everyday life is not a big deal, you shouldn’t take that attitude with your finances as it can not only cost you money in the short-term, but worse in the long-term, you may find yourself without any savings or with a bad credit record,” Sibiya warns. Here are a few ways to spring clean your finances to ensure that you don’t wind up losing money. Pay your bills on time Not paying your bills on time will probably result in you having to fork out extra for late payment fees as well as additional interest. Worse than this, late payments will give you a bad credit record with the Credit Bureau, which will impact your chances of securing a further line of credit later on. “Unfortunately, service providers will not let you get away with paying bills late. There is either interest that accrues from the day that it is late, a late payment fee and in some cases the service provider will simply stop the service,” says Sibiya. She suggests making use of digital platforms like cellphone or online banking to eliminate any chances of paying your bills late. Create a budget If you haven’t drawn up a budget yet – do so immediately! Sibiya says a budget is the first port of call for anyone wanting to get their finances under control and manage expenditure. Burying your head in the sand will get you nowhere. “One of the reasons why you may not be tackling your finances could be because you don’t want to face the truth about what you are actually spending every month,” she says. “Budgeting  can help you save money as it quickly highlights bad spending habits.” Filing your tax return on time Give yourself ample time to collect the documentation required and make sure you file your tax return on time to avoid being slapped with hefty penalties for late filing or not filing at all. Start saving as soon as possible Statistics released by the Reserve Bank show that SA has one of the worst savings rates in the world at just 15,4% of the GDP. As a result, around two thirds of the population will not have enough money in savings to sustain themselves once they reach retirement age. It doesn’t have to be large amounts – as the saying goes: Take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves. “Most people don’t realise that by putting off saving they are essentially taking money from their future selves,” Sibiya says. “So, the money you are spending on unnecessary items now, such as entertainment or clothing is money that your future self could be using towards something that will make a real difference to your life – such as a deposit for a house, your children’s school fees or even living comfortably in retirement.”  