In celebration of International Women's Day, Ethiopian Airlines will today launch its inaugural flight to Buenos Aires, Argentina, that will be operated by an all-female crew In November last year, Africa’s biggest airline Ethiopian Airlines, deployed its first all-female operated flight from the capital to Bangkok, Thailand. The progressive move was aimed at promoting women empowerment in the aviation industry and it was widely celebrated the world over. The airline is doing it again today, as it launches five weekly flights to the Argentinian capital. “We are all the more happy that the flights will be launched on 8 March, International Women’s Day. To mark this important occasion and as part of our commitment of mainstreaming gender into our core business, the inaugural flight on 8 March will be an all women-operated flight,” Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde Gebremariam said. “From the check-in counter all the way to the cockpit, you will in the capable hands of women aviation professionals, as we launch our service to Buenos Aires. We want to dedicate this special flight for the African girl to inspire her to believe in her dreams,” Gebremariam said. READ MORE: Female pilot breaking boundaries The new route will serve as the Ethiopian Airlines sixth gateway into South America and provide connections to its networks in Asia, the Middle East and Africa. The flight will be piloted by Amsale Gualu, who became a captain at the airline in 2010 and everyone from the planning staff, aircraft maintenance to air traffic controllers. Gaul hardly considers her decision to pursue a career in the aviation industry as a job, but rather a calling that she’s fulfilling. “For me flying is more than a job, it is pure passion and desire,” Gualu said. “I’ve loved aviation for as long as I can remember.” She said she’s proud of being part of history in the making and honoured for the opportunity to inspire more African girls to follow in her footsteps. “One thing I’ve come to know for sure, and believe beyond any doubt, is the ability of women to lead in any sector, any field or at any level.”