Female staffers at bookmaker Topbet were forced to endure a strip search, after menstrual blood was found in the ladies' bathroom According to an EWN report, around 20 women at the company’s Germiston branch were subjected to violating body searches, allegedly at management’s instruction, after a small amount of blood was discovered on a toilet seat in the ladies’ bathroom. The incident, which took place in January, arose after the women were gathered together and called to account for the mess. When nobody stepped up to take responsibility, a cleaner was ordered to physically check each woman to determine who the culprit was. In an interview with Talk Radio 702 this morning, Gladys Radebe, a 56-year-old employee,  relayed how she was left traumatised by the incident, particularly because her protests over the fact that she’s been through menopause and no longer menstruating fell on deaf ears. “I told the manager I am 56-years-old, I’m no longer menstruating. She told me it did not matter whether I menstruated or not,” she said. READ MORE: Will ‘period leave’ become the norm? Radebe opened a case of sexual harassment against management, but in a bizarre twist, Topbet has placed her on suspension, reportedly because the court case was costing the company money. Responding to the incident, Topbet co-owner Ainsling O’Connor said the company does not condone what took place and has apologised to the women who were subjected to the searches. She said lawyers advised that Radebe be placed on suspension. “We have suspended her because of the rape cases she has laid, the police and the labour lawyers have suggested we suspend her,” she said, without being able to elaborate further. An independent female advocate has been appointed to investigate the matter further. O’Connor refuted Radebe’s version of events, saying Radebe and another older woman were excluded from the search due to their age. Radebe dismisses the reason for her suspension, together with the contrite stance taken by Topbet, asserting the apology never took place, and if it had, the appropriate time would have been immediately after it occurred. Source: EWN