Most business-owners will for the first time have to deal adjusting the Vat rate. Here's how to take the headache out of it On 1 April 2018, value-added tax (Vat) will increase for the first time in 25 years, from 14% to 15%. If you’re a small business-owner, it’s likely that you’ve never had to deal with a change in the Vat rate before and don’t know where to start to get your systems and processes Vat-ready without impacting your cash flow and operations. Here are a few tips to get your small business Vat-ready, come 1 April. Test If you are a small business that still uses manual processes like spreadsheets to calculate and record Vat, consider creating dummy sheets and invoices to ensure you are processing the additional Vat correctly and that you can process transactions at 14% on 31 March and 15% on 1 April. Also consider that, if a customer returns a product on 1 April that they bought on 31 March, it will need to be refunded at the old Vat rate. NOTE: From 1 April, all receipts, invoices, quotes, adverts, credit and debit notes must reflect the new rate, so test your systems beforehand to make sure there aren’t any errors. Understand time of supply The transaction date, or time of supply, is probably the biggest consideration for businesses when applying Vat to sales. The Vat Act stipulates that the time of supply will be either when an invoice is issued or when payment is received – whichever happens first. For example, if you invoice for a sale on 31 March but are only paid on 2 April, the Vat rate of 14% will apply. READ MORE: Budget 2018: The silver lining for small businesses If you receive payment on 1 April but have not yet invoiced for the sale, then Vat should be charged at 15%. NOTE: Consult the VAT Act for rate-specific rules applicable to contracts and supplies starting before and ending on or after 1 April. Automate where possible Cloud-based, automated accounting solutions, like Sage One, will be Vat-ready, come 1 April. Businesses using these solutions don’t have to worry about staying on top of the different Vat rates because the system will automatically generate the correct Vat invoice, quote and debit or credit note. NOTE: All transactions are stored and readily accessible in the cloud, from anywhere, ensuring businesses are compliant with Sars and Vat laws.