The Health Department on Thursday officially launched the continent's first ATM pharmacy in Alexandra, Johannesburg Alexandra residents who suffer from chronic illnesses will no longer have to brave long queues to collect their medication, following the arrival of the first pharmacy dispensing unit (PDU). The most impressive feature that the unit boasts is the ability to dispense repeat prescriptions in under three minutes. “This is a great step forward for patients in our city, as it dramatically reduces waiting times and congestion in public healthcare facilities. In Alex, there are eight primary healthcare clinics in the vicinity that refer patients,” says Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa. Developed by Right to Care and Right ePharmacy, the PDU functions much like an ATM that you withdraw cash from. The system is operated by pharmacists and their assistants who are linked to patients through a Skype-like audio visual interaction and it runs off cloud-based software and robotic technology to dispense and label the medication. In order to fill out your prescription, you will need to scan your ID book or card or a pharmacy card and then punch in a pin number. Patients will then be able to communicate with the remote pharmacist if you so wish, you select the prescription you want filled, then the medication is labeled and dispensed robotically and dropped into the collection slot. You will be issued with a receipt that notifies you of your next collection date and you’ll also be sent an SMS reminder. “The system is run by qualified pharmacists and pharmacy assistants and integrates with the clinical management of patients with chronic conditions at public facilities. It also supports adherence,” Ramakgopa says. “Late collections are immediately flagged for follow up. It also offers patients service in all eleven languages and there is support at the site to help patients deal with the technology.” The PDU is located at the Alexandra Plaza, which is easily accessible using public transport and it’s open over the weekend and on public holidays. Plans are afoot to roll out more units around the city, with the Gauteng Health Department having already identified sites – two in Soweto and another in Diepsloot.