Think about your next job interview as an opportunity to tell your story rather than worrying about it, as this could sabotage your chances from the start Career experts advise that you shouldn’t be worried about the hard questions in your next job interview. Instead, think about the job interview as a chance to tell the story you want to share. Talking to Business Insider, career expert and résumé writer Andrea Gerson told the website that you can bend the interviewer’s questions to suit your purposes by preparing ahead of time, instead of stressing about which questions will come your way. She said that because most people think that they are at the mercy of whatever question the interviewer throws at them, they feel like they have to answer the question as it is framed. READ MORE: How to ace your next job interview “But really, what I advise to my clients is that each interview question is a chance for them to tell a story that highlights an accomplishment or a strength that they have,” Gerson was quoted as saying. As an interviewee, you can highlight your strength or accomplishment by providing an anecdote that not only gives interviewers deeper insights, but that also answers the questions being asked. Questions like “What would your last boss say about you?” give you the perfect opportunity to demonstrate your strengths with a personal story, said Gerson, adding that these questions become the perfect canvas for narrative examples that showcase a winning moment in your career, while minimising the need to think on your feet. According to Gerson, some of the questions that could be potentially re-framed include: She also advises her clients to brainstorm various anecdotes in order to make the most of these questions. However, the ultimate goal is for interviewers to get to know the real you, and it does neither you nor the interviewer a favour to misrepresent your interests, talents and accomplishments. READ MORE: 4 questions you should be asking your job interviewer Facebook Vice President of Human Resources Janelle Gale says that she isn’t interested in know-it-alls, and she asks specific questions (such as, “What would you have done differently?” or “What did you learn in the process?”) to weed out people who think they’re the smartest in the room. “If someone hesitates for a really long time and can’t come up with an answer, or if they spin it so that what they learned actually makes them look good, that tells me that they are closed off to learning,” Gale was quoted as saying. Source: Business Insider