The head of Facebook has apologised for the "major breach of trust" it committed when it allowed the personal information of 50 million users to be collected by a data mining company linked to US President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign Mark Zuckerberg, however, could not explain why it took almost three years for Facebook to take action when it learnt about the data breach as early as 2015. “I am really sorry that this happened, he said in an interview with US cable channel CNN on Wednesday. “We have a basic responsibility to protect people’s data, and if we can’t do that, then we don’t deserve the opportunity to serve people,” he said. In a separate statement posted on the social-media platform he founded, Zuckerberg acknowledged that “mistakes” were made, adding “there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it”. “This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” he said referring to Aleksandr Kogan, a Cambridge University researcher who created an app that collected personal data of users, and then sold the information to the data mining company linked to Trump. “It was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it. We need to fix that.” READ MORE: Mastercard uses Facebook Messenger to help small businesses go digital Zuckerberg was forced to apologise following reports that the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC), an independent goverment body governing privacy policies, is looking into whether Facebook violated a 2011 rules on consent. If Facebook is found to have violated the terms of the consent decree, the FTC can fine the social network more than $40 000 a day per violation. Cambridge Analytica controversy The UK’s privacy regulator, the Information Commissioner’s office, said on Monday it would request a  warrant  to search the offices of the political consultancy. Cambridge Analytica stands accused of using data  mined  from Facebook in the voter research it conducted for President Donald Trump during the 2016 elections campaign. Facebook’s price at the stock market also fell following the revelation. An undercover investigation by the UK-based Channel 4 revealed that Cambridge Analytica may have engaged in ethically and legally questionable practices. The firm’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, was approached by an undercover reporter posing as a fixer for a potential client. READ MORE: Facebook launches Marketplace in South Africa Nix reportedly told the fixer that his company’s litany of services included sending escorts to political opponents, bribing them and leaking recordings to the press as well pushing compromising material in a discreet manner on social media. Nix has since been suspended. Mark Turnbull, Cambridge Analytica’s MD for political operations, said that once information is published online, the team will ensure that the content remains relevant. In his statement late on Wednesday, Zuckerberg vowed to fix policies at Facebook to prevent similar breaches in the future. “At the end of the day, I’m responsible for what happens on our platform,” he said. “We wil learn from this experience to secure our platform further and make our community safer for everyone going forward.” – Al Jazeera