After announcing that it had halted operations to carry out cleaning protocols for listeria, Tiger Brands’ share price took a beating, at one stage dipping almost 13% to R370,30. By 10.06am, the shares were trading 7,06% weaker at R395 In a note to shareholders released on Monday morning, Tiger Brands said the National Consumer Commission has ordered a national recall of Enterprise’s polony, frankfurters and smoked Russian products. “Tiger Brands prioritises the health and safety of consumers above all else. To this end, we have, with immediate effect, undertaken a full national recall of the identified Enterprise ready-to-eat chilled processed meat product range. “We have contacted all our customers to confirm that the recalled products are removed from their store shelves and will continue to work with authorities to ensure an effective and speedy recall,” the announcement said. Tiger Brands said while its own tests of its facilities found a low count of listeria at less than 10 conforming units, in line with current industry guidelines, it recognises the seriousness of the outbreak that has claimed 180 lives. READ MORE: Tiger Brands recalls Enterprise processed meats over listeriosis fears “Since the confirmed outbreak of listeriosis by the Department of Health in December 2017, the company proactively amplified its testing for listeria of raw materials and finished goods and also introduced additional hygiene monitoring of our processes, equipment, storage and waste areas at our facilities,” said the statement. Tiger Brands said relevant samples were sent to an external laboratory for the identification of the strain, and results are expected back on Monday. Meanwhile, RCL Foods [JSE:RCL] confirmed in a separate note to shareholders that its Wolwehoek processing plant has taken the precautionary measure to suspend all production of RCL Foods’ Rainbow Polony brand. Additionally, it is in the process of recalling all Rainbow Polony products from its entire customer base. “Although this is sort of proactive, I think it is going to be extremely difficult to ringfence this threat. “More players in the industry will be performing similar steps just to keep their hands clean,” said Casparus Treurnicht at Gryphon Asset Management. READ MORE: Tiger Brands’ share price climbs after new CEO appointment Tiger Brands [JSE:TBS] has confirmed a full national recall of Enterprise Foods meat products after Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi on Sunday announced that Enterprise’s facilities in Polokwane, Limpopo, were the source of SA’s latest listeriosis outbreak. – Fin24