The ANC in Gauteng has called the effigy of Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi a "cowardice [act] by racists" who are determined to undermine the efforts of a non-racial society. The ANC has condemned the actions of racists who hung an effigy of Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi outside the offices of Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga in Pretoria on Wednesday. “This brazen act by anti-transformation agents flies in the face of the supremacy of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, which advocates for equality and the advancement of human rights and freedoms including non-racialism,” said ANC Gauteng spokesperson Motalatale Modiba. “It follows several threats Comrade Panyaza has been receiving together with his family after the ANC-led government’s decision to change the language policy at certain schools in the province from Afrikaans-only to parallel-medium schools,” he said. READ MORE: Gauteng MEC Lesufi to appeal court ruling on Hoërskool Overvaal language dispute Modiba urged Lesufi, and the provincial and national departments of education to open a case with the police. “What is very clear from this latest incident is that the recent judgment meted out to convicted racist, Vicki Momberg, which sets a precedent for other racial related cases, has not had the desired effect, as those that are hell-bent on dividing our society along racial lines still feel the need to defend their apartheid racial legacy,” he said. “This means that the imperative to redress the results of past racially discriminatory laws and practices is more urgent than ever before.” On Wednesday, Lesufi said his children had been told to tell their father “to stop doing what he is doing”. “I am not worried. I went through worse things during those worse days of apartheid,” he said. READ MORE: Convicted racist Vicki Momberg sentenced to three years in prison  “It (the effigy) is an insult to anyone who believes in non-racial education for all.” Of the incident, he tweeted: “These morons came to our offices to “hang” me! We defeated your racists grandparents, you are nothing! (sic)”. When asked if they were pressing charges, Gauteng Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said: “We will inform on our actions.” – News24