South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday named Trudi Makhaya as his economic adviser This comes after Ramaphosa appointed former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel, former Deputy Minister of Finance Mcebisi Jonas, Executive Chairperson of Afropulse Group Phumzile Langeni and Chairman of Liberty Group Jacko Maree as the President’s special envoys on investment. Makhaya is a writer, economist and entrepreneur. She has served as an adviser and angel investor in young companies and held non-executive directorships at Vumelana Advisory Fund and MTN South Africa. She was the principal economist and a member of the executive committee at the Competition Commission of South Africa from 2010-2014, assessing the competitive effects of mergers and acquisitions, analysing complex competition enforcement cases and appearing as an expert witness at the Competition Tribunal. Prior to joining the Competition Commission, she held various management consulting and corporate roles at Deloitte South Africa, Genesis Analytics and AngloGold Ashanti. READ MORE: Cyril Ramaphosa is officially SA’s first citizen Makhaya holds an MBA and an MSc in Development Economics from Oxford University, where she studied as a Rhodes scholar. From the University of Witwatersrand, she holds an MCom in Economics, an honours degree in economics and a BCom in Law and Economics. Ramaphosa said that Makhaya’s duties would include coordinating the work of investment envoys as they crisscross the globe trying to attract at least $100 billion in new foreign direct investment to the South African economy over the next five years. The group will be travelling to major financial centres in Asia, Middle East, Europe and the Americas to meet with potential investors, and also seek out investors in other parts of Africa, from Nairobi to Lagos and from Dakar to Cairo. “Among her immediate responsibilities will be the coordination of the work of these special envoys and a series of investment roadshows in preparation for the Investment Conference,” Ramaphosa said. – African News Agency