The Trevor Noah Foundation aims to help South African youth gain education, life skills and social start-up capital South African comedy genius and host of The Daily Show Trevor Noah said his foundation hopes to drive systemic change that improves the lives of vulnerable youth in the country. The 34-year-old writer, producer, political commentator and actor announced his initiative on Wednesday at an event live-streamed on Facebook. “Fundamentally, the foundation is an organisation that will focus primarily on education. Figuring out how to bridge the gap between a child and the education that we think they deserve,” he said. READ MORE: Local comedian joins Trevor Noah on The Daily Show He said the most important thing for him was to start a conversation and start that journey of connecting those people who know more than he does and who knows more than they do and connecting those voices. “I’m a victim of one thing and that is if I want to get something done, I get a woman who’s more powerful than me to do it,” he said. The Trevor Noah Foundation aimed to help those that are already trying to help themselves. It will also provide the youths with means to allow them to pursue studies beyond high school graduation. “One thing I always loved about South Africa was that when my car was stuck… well, not my car, my mum’s car. My cars don’t get stuck. People would come and help us push the car. They didn’t push the car for us or fix the car for us, but they would help us push.” The foundation has also partnered with Microsoft to help children.  It aims for children to be taught by good teachers, but for those lessons to be complemented by an adequate technological education system. READ MORE: South African director to helm Trevor Noah movie “The journey and goal is to start a programme, and better understand how to help schools move forwards. Then, we want to help these schools become self-sufficient. Each experience will inform the next. Today is only the beginning,” said Noah.