Joss da Costa, the owner of the Rodizio Brazilian restaurant in Fourways, Johannesburg, has denied intentionally assaulting an employee at his establishment last month Fortune Moyo (19) claims his boss threw a kettle of boiling water at him after accusing him of eating oxtail that was meant for customers. Da Costa told Talk Radio 702’s Bongani Bingwa that the victim just happened to be in the way. Moyo, who works at the restaurant as the cleaner, was meant to return to work on Friday morning, but he said his shoulder was badly injured and he was in pain. He said he had helped himself to leftover sauce from a pot that was about to be washed when his boss confronted him. READ MORE: Bathabile Dlamini defends Manana after assault incident When he explained himself, Da Costa told him that he should have sought his permission to use the sauce. “I took the remaining sauce and mixed it with some spaghetti that had been left overnight. I was preparing to eat, when he again came in and basically got angry, shouting at me and throwing a kettle of boiling water at me, burning my body,” he said. He had incurred severe burn wounds to his upper body and face. EWN reports that Gauteng police are currently investigating a case of assault. Da Costa said he had thrown the kettle to the ground because the workers had been using too much sugar to make tea. “I never assaulted anyone and I never intended doing that at all. What happened to him was actually by mistake – I didn’t even know the kettle held hot water when I picked it up. “I took the kettle and broke it on the floor – in the interim, I got burned, he got burned and I know another two employees got burned, so it wasn’t just me grabbing the kettle and throwing it at Mr Fortune,” said Da Costa. READ MORE: Watch: ‘Racist’ assault of garage employee He said there had been a lot of stealing at his establishment. “In anger, I took the decision that no-one should be allowed to make tea anymore, because this is where the problem lies,” he said. Source: EWN