Bonang Matheba is set to make a return to TV screens next month, after her reality show Being Bonang was renewed for a second season It seems the people have spoken and they want to see more of “your girl B”. “Back by popular demand. There is going to be lots of laughs and lots of quatables. This season is a lot more international, and you’ll get to meet a lot more people,” Matheba said in an interview with Channel24. Show favourite Pinky Girl is set to receive more airplay this season, with cameras delving deeper into her life, while documenting Bonang’s journey as a single woman. News of the series renewal came as a surprise after it was announced in September last year that the show wouldn’t be returning for a second season, following poor ratings. READ MORE: No season 2 for Being Bonang Stats released by the Broadcast Research Council showed that Being Bonong failed to make a list of the top 30 most-watched shows on DStv. After three episodes, the show had garnered less than the 327 831 viewers, with more people tuning in to watch Mzansi Magic’s telenovela Isithembiso instead. In an interview with TimesLive, Olwethu Mlotshwa defended the show’s ratings, partly attributing the low viewership numbers to the show’s time slot. “From the numbers we have so far, Bonang’s show is doing very well, especially since it’s in such a tough time slot,” he said in August last year. Mlotshwa, who directs Somizi Mhlongo’s show Living the Life with Somizi, was seconded to co-direct and produce Being Bonang mid-season in an attempt to beef up viewer numbers. “I’ve watched the reaction to the show closely and I think the problem is that people have unrealistic expectations. They think it will be the same Bonang they saw on Live Amp, but Bonang is older and she is different.” READ MORE: Bonang’s book goes global Some critics of the show have called it boring, but Mlotshwa said viewers need to understand how fiercely protective Bonang needs to be over her personal brand and so you won’t see her behaving badly. “This reality show is different to other reality show, including those I have worked on before. Bonang is not a wild, ratchet person whose life is filled with drama. She has a brand to uphold and she also has to be true to herself. I don’t think people understand that,” he said. Being Bonang returns on 4 May.