Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng started her education under a tree and had to walk up to 10km just to get to school Today, she is a full professor in mathematics education. She is also preparing to take over from Max Price as the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cape Town from July. Perhaps foretelling good fortune, Phakeng was born still in her amniotic sac, in a Catholic clinic in Eastwood, Pretoria, on 1 November 1966. Her mother, Wendy, was a domestic and factory worker, while her father Frank was a radio announcer at the SABC. After giving birth to Phakeng and her siblings, Wendy went back to school and finished her studies so she could work as a teacher. READ MORE: Transformation tops UCT’s new vice-chancellor Mamokgethi Phakeng’s agenda Eight schools in 12 years READ MORE: UCT to finalise appointment of new Vice-Chancellor No time for partying Phakeng, her brother and sister were at one stage all attending university at the same time. “So there wasn’t much time, there wasn’t much money.” Describing herself as nerdy and scared at the time because she was still so young, Phakeng says she did not party it up at university. She threw herself into tennis, soccer and hockey. She was also well known for demonstrating ballroom and Latin American dancing skills that she picked up while in Ga-Rankuwa. Phakeng said she was never a student leader, but attended mass meetings. She still has the scars from a protest she took part in to prevent then Education Minister Andries Treurnicht from speaking in Mafikeng. ‘I focused on what I can do’ “I was a conscientious student. I was committed to getting my degree.” READ MORE: UCT to rename building after Chris Hani Phakeng obtained her PhD in mathematics education in 2002. While she struggled with other subjects, she excelled at mathematics because nobody told her it was hard, she said. “I just came to terms with what I want, what I can and cannot do. “I focused on what I can do and I like, and I did it well. And all my life, that’s what I did.” The rest, as they say, is history. – News24