As tributes continue to stream in for the late Mother of our Nation, struggle stalwarts have described the fallen heroine as a fearless leader who gave a voice to the voiceless The Thabo Mbeki Foundation has praised Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s contribution to the apartheid liberation struggle, following her passing on Monday at the age of 81. Foundation’s spokesperson Thami Ntenteni said that it was tragic to hear that an “icon of this stature has fallen”. “A characteristic of the struggle veterans is that they never elevated themselves above the people. They gave their lives to the struggle – even after 1994 – without expectation,” said Ntenteni. “Winnie committed herself to the people and that was the biggest gift of all. We will remember everything and forget nothing. We must remember that freedom was not free – it came at a heavy cost.” In a statement, the SACP hailed Madikizela-Mandela as a stalwart of the struggle for liberation, a resolute gender transformation activist and national democratic revolutionary. READ MORE: Mam’ Winnie passes away aged 81 “Her departure from the world of the living has left South Africa poorer without her,” the SACP said. “In memory of Comrade Winnie, the ANC, the SACP and the whole of South Africa’s liberation movement, as well as the government should document the institutional memory that South Africa would lose without a detailed historical account of the contribution and sacrifices made by each one of our veterans to the course of freedom. “This is extremely important, both for young people and our future generations. An accurate account of where our society comes from is crucial to our national vision for a non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa based on social emancipation.” Ahmed Kathrada Foundation chairman Derek Hanekom described Mam’ Winnie as a fearless fighter who played a large role in keeping the struggle alive. “For the broader South African public, Comrade Winnie became an iconic symbol against apartheid, and especially so at a time when the ANC and other liberation organisations were almost crushed. Her militancy, courage and defiance kept the struggle against apartheid alive,” he said. READ MORE: A timeline of Mam’ Winnie’s life UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said Madikizela-Mandela would be remembered as a feisty and vocal freedom fighter. “Today, we say goodbye to a woman who will be remembered as a feisty and vocal freedom fighter who did not hesitate to speak her mind; she certainly stirred lively debate wherever she went,” he said. “She was herself never deterred from playing the role she had to; which saw her go to jail several times and she found herself harshly exiled in Brandfort. Often were her children ripped from her arms whilst the security forces found reasons to apprehend her.” – News24 Wire