Midem's High-Potential Markets programme, which was designed to assist music professionals from around the world by encouraging business development and the discovery of new talent, has arrived in South Africa The first Midem African Forum High-Potential Markets programme was held in Johannesburg this week with more than 100 delegates in attendance. Midem, international marketplace for the global music community, announced this initiative last month. It aims to foster bilateral exchanges between international and national music executives and sectors in order to facilitate the structuring and professionalisation of high-potential markets. This year, the new programme will focus on the African music industry, with a four-day African Forum during the annual Midem conference (5-8 June in Cannes, France). The forum will be preceded by a series of industry meetings across four African countries to support the structuring of the continental music industry, stimulate discussions between African and international music stakeholders and develop sustainable business models for African labels and artists in order to boost African music on a local and international scale. READ MORE: Sheree O’Brien on the business of music Speakers including Alexandre Denoit (CEO, Midem), Brad Holmes (Bass Line), Gillian Ezra (Head of African Operations, DEEZER), Nhlanhla Sibisi (CEO, Recording Industry of SA), Leo Manne (Senior Vice-President, Trace SA), Akotchaye Okio (International Development Officer for Africa, Society of Authors, Composers and Publishers of Music), Yoel Kenan (CEO, Africori), and Amaru da Costa (Soulistic) were among the delegates who attended the forum. “Africa has incredible wealth in terms of musical talent and diversity of musical styles but the continent currently represents just 2% of the world music market, ” said Deniot. “As the home of the global music community, Midem is committed to supporting the development of the international music sector and that includes providing African artists and music companies with a platform to reach more fans and generate new revenues. We look forward to welcoming them to Midem in 2018 and beyond.” The African Forum is organised by Midem in association with Trace, the leading pan-African music media network. “By partnering with Midem on the African Forum, we bring together Midem’s power as an international music business acceleration platform, with our expertise in Afro-urban music, along with our local knowledge and excellent relationship with our subscribers in Africa, at the service of promoting African talent and providing creative solutions to improve its local and international development,” noted Olivier Laouchez, CEO of Trace. READ MORE: Lira on the business of music The African Forum, running throughout Midem, will host high-level discussions involving African and international music industry leaders, politicians and official institutions. In addition, it will provide a platform to promote African musical creativity, a Midem Night dedicated to African music and opportunities to share knowledge and professional training. Photo by Austin Malaga