Former apartheid era security police officer Paul Erasmus opened up about the active role he played in running a directed smear campaign against the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Speaking to Talk Radio 702 on Wednesday, Erasmus relayed how during the period of negotiations ahead of Madiba’s release from prison, the apartheid government had identified struggle activists who it perceived as political threats. Some stalwarts were referred to as “moderates”, meaning they were people the government thought they could engage in negotiations with and then there were stalwarts they considered to be trouble-making, radical firebrands who needed to be “eliminated”. “The plan was to discredit her and that was my job, because I had set up a network going all the way up from Johannesburg – believe it or not – all the way to John Major, who was then the Prime Minister of Britain,” Erasmus revealed in the interview. READ MORE: Zoleka Mandela’s heartfelt tribute to Mam’ Winnie Erasmus was speaking ahead of the screening of an explosive documentary entitled Winnie, which exposes how the apartheid government feared Madikizela-Mandela to the extent that they orchestrated a covert strategic communications operation, the purpose of which was to tarnish her image domestically and internationally. “I’ve got everything that’s ever needed to prove it and it did work,” Erasmus said, referring to the smear campaign. To this day, people around the world still perceive Madikizela-Mandela as a murderer and child abuser following the death of 14-year-old Mandela Football Club member Stompie Seipei. “This went out to Vanity Fair in the USA, it went to Kyodo News Agency in Japan and it did Winnie and the ANC one hell of a damage. She was pretty much neutralised by this and at the very least discredited,” Erasmus revealed. READ MORE: [WATCH] Mourners arrive at Soweto stadium for Madikizela-Mandela memorial “I can tell you that 90% of that stuff was utter rubbish and figments of my very fertile imagination and/or a ballooning of information I received from intelligence-gatherers at Soweto security branch.” Last week, former apartheid-era Police Commissioner George Fivaz unequivocally dismissed perceptions that Madikizela-Mandela had issued the order for Stompie to be eliminated. “There was not a single bit of information that fingered Winnie to say that she was responsible or not maybe personally responsible for the murder, that she gave instruction for Stompie to be eliminated. That was not found in terms of new evidence,” Fivaz said in a detailed interview with eNCA.