South African comedian and host of The Daily Show Trevor Noah has been featured on Time's 100 Most Influential People list The Time 100 Most Influential People list features individuals recognised for changing the world, regardless of the consequences of their actions. Noah and Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa are among the two Africans who have been included in this year’s list, alongside other names such as Donald Trump, Oprah Winfrey, Rihanna and Prince Harry. Individuals or groups are exclusively chosen by Time editors, with nominations coming from the Time 100 alumni and the magazine’s international writing staff. Each entrant has a short profile written by an equally prominent individual, describing what makes these individuals influential. READ MORE: 14 South Africans among the 100 most influential Africans of 2017 In her write-up, actress Lupita Nyong’o who is set to play Noah’s mum in the film adaptation of his book, Born a Crime, wrote that when she thinks of Noah, the first image she sees is from his memoir: of his mother throwing him out of a moving vehicle while he’s asleep in order to save his life. “Through other eyes, this could be remembered as traumatic and harrowing. Through Trevor’s, it is bonding and hilarious, a testament to the love of someone who truly had to think on their feet. “That is how Trevor sees the world. A fantastic storyteller, he has always been a defier of rules, which he broke simply by being born in his native country. At The Daily Show, which he has truly globalised, Trevor seeks out comedians of colour in every possible venue, no matter how small. He is determined to find the best talent representing the most diverse viewpoints. READ MORE: Taraji P Henson makes TIME’s 100 Most Influential People list “Trevor, who grew up biracial in apartheid South Africa, has the unique ability to tell truths that bring us together. He is uncannily skilled at holding up a mirror to whatever room he is in. Trevor is always reaching out: across cultures, continents and boundaries. He makes us laugh with each other and brings us that much closer to under­standing one another,” she wrote. Source: Time 