"There’s such an alluring sincerity about Gert. He’s engaging, inspiring, passionate, boldly creative and wise beyond his years." Mzansi Magic and Ndalo Pictures, in association with 4th STREET Wines and production partners Rapid Blue, are proud to announce that the mentor for Project Runway SA will be none other than South Africa’s award-winning fashion designer Gert-Johan Coetzee. The mentor will be playing a substantial role in Project Runway SA as the show’s golden key to unlocking greater depths of creativity within each contestant, as they compete for their big break in the fashion industry. Amid the inevitable drama and panic that comes with intense challenges, Coetzee will be the calm eye of the storm for the contestants, keeping them on deadline, guiding them on their designs and fabric choices and steering them towards the finish line, greatness and the ultimate expression of their own voices. ‘I am utterly thrilled and honoured to be part of South Africa’s first version of Project Runway. This means I will be at the forefront, helping to nurture the incredible talent we have in this country,’ says Coetzee. Fashion has always been Coetzee’s life. He was already in sewing classes at the age of six. By the age of eight, he was creating dresses, and by 19, he was winning awards (SA’s Most Promising Young Designer in 2006). He was just 23 when he launched his own label at SA Fashion Week in 2010. Today, his exquisite couture creations are worn by A-list celebrities on red carpets around the world. Coetzee also designs a chic ready-to-wear range, which is carried in selected boutiques and his online store. Ndalo Pictures founder and CEO Khanyi Dhlomo says: “Mentorship is not only at the very heart of Project Runway, but at the heart of Ndalo Pictures too, so it was of utmost importance that we found the perfect mentor with all the right nuances.” She adds: ‘There’s such an alluring sincerity about Gert. He’s engaging, inspiring, passionate, boldly creative and wise beyond his years. He’s the perfect fit.’ Mentorship is not new to Coetzee. The flourishing designer launched his own bursary programme seven years ago. The Gert-Johan Coetzee Bursary Programme covers students for three years and includes personal mentorship by Coetzee himself, as well as internships at his studio. “Mentorships are invaluable,” says Coetzee. “The design schools may give you the knowledge and the skills, but the personal attention that comes with internships and Project Runway South Africa gives you the polish. And that’s when the true stars shine. “The competition is going to be tough, the expectations are going to be high… don’t bring anything less than your A-game!” Get ready for Project Runway South Africa, coming to Mzansi Magic, DStv channel 161, in July 2018. Mzansi Magic, Ndalo Pictures and their production partners Rapid Blue are all geared up to bring the first local version of the series to DStv, channel 161, in July this year; in association with 4th STREET Wines – headline sponsor for Project Runway South Africa. Other sponsors include Edgars (apparel and beauty), TRESemmé (haircare), Menlyn Park Shopping Centre (venue) and Lexus (luxury auto marketing).  