American civil rights activist Reverend Jesse Jackson reckons that most South Africans are not economically free and they need to ensure that they own shares in big businesses and international companies Jackson was delivering a lecture on the challenges of black excellence at the Gordon Institute of Business Science at the University of Pretoria. The lecture was held in collaboration with Future Africa Forums and The Young Professionals Association to cover some of the prominent highlights of the American civil rights movement and the South African struggle for freedom. It also touched on the modern-day challenges and the progress black people are making in stamping their authority and excellence across different fields, while simultaneously celebrating the life of Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s life of activism. READ MORE: Funeka Montjane on the essence of black excellence Jackson said the only way a white slave-owner could go to prison during the years of legal slavery was if he educated a black slave, because “strong minds break strong chains”. He said slavery was not as brutal as apartheid. “If we are still trying to even the economic playing field and you who have been blessed to have an education spend more than you have, and vote less than you have, you are on the path to suicide,” he said. According to him, the race separation has been won, but the fight for resources is ongoing and it is a challenge to all with a vested interest in a free and prosperous South Africa. “Racial segregation was so brutal that it alienated black people from progressing economically,” he says. The Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Dr Zweli Mkhize, who introduced Rev Jackson initially, called for black professionals and business people to have faith in themselves and support one another. “The public sector should also provide more support, give business to more black contractors, and also pay them on time. It is unacceptable that many black companies face the threat of closure due to not being paid on time for legitimate work that has been performed. “That is the type of practical support that must be provided by the democratic government in order to promote black excellence and radical economic transformation,” he said. READ MORE: Dr John Kani on black excellence He said he would meet with black professionals to discuss the support that they require to turn around dysfunctional municipalities. “We need to see black excellence shining as municipalities begin to do what they should do – provide lights, water, remove refuse and clear our neighbourhoods, run efficient clinics and other services,” he said. 