Zoleka Mandela, one of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's grandchildren, has posted a moving tribute to her fallen pillar of strength Zoleka documented some of her grandmother’s last moments on Instagram, sharing a collage of photographs taken of the pair attending a Good Friday church service just days before Mam’ Winnie passed away. Madikizela-Mandela, who Zoleka affectionately refers to her as her “Day One” –  was dressed in full church regalia, dressed in a black skirt, a red shirt with a white collar and a white beanie-style hat. Zoleka shared how the pair enjoyed a “cheat day meal” after a gruelling five-hour church service, stopping to pick up food on the way home. READ MORE: Zoleka Mandela finds hope “I forgot how long the Good Friday service at church is, over five hours,” she wrote. “My Day One and I left the service so hungry, we had to stop and buy roasted corn on the side of the road to eat en route to the house.”  The duo have long shared a special relationship and Madikizela-Mandela has often been the one person Zoleka sought out for support during the varying challenges she’s had to endure in the past. Mam’ Winnie was the person she chose to have accompany her to her recent graduation ceremony for her bachelor’s degree in psychology she attained from the University of SA (Unisa). Zoleka also chose Madikizela-Mandela to write the foreward to her 2013 book When Hope Whispers (Jacana Media), an autobiography that delved into Zoleka’s more than a decade struggle with drug, alcohol and sex addiction, the loss of two children, four years of sexual abuse as a child, a highly public breakup and her mammoth battle with breast cancer. READ MORE: Mam’ Winnie passes away aged 81 Speaking at the launch of the book, Madikizela-Mandela told of her struggle to write the foreward, revealing that she had to go through 10 draft copies before she was happy with the final product. In the end, she settled with: “As a grandmother, I have been with Zoleka throughout the darkest days of her life, together with the family that reached out to her and embraced her with unconditional love. She is a brave survivor of the greatest test in any woman’s life because of her strength of character and resolve.”