Nonkanyiso Conco, the 24-year-old set to become former President Jacob Zuma's seventh wife, has tendered her resignation as an executive committee member of a women's rights advocacy NGO Conco’s resignation, tendered on Sunday morning, follows an ultimatum issued by She Conquers, an NGO that advocates for women’s rights, that she step down by 23 April. She had been employed by the organisation since December 2016 and served as Treasurer and Communications Officer. The NGO said it made the demand because Conco failed to disclose her relationship with Zuma and the organisation views her partnership with Zuma as “contrary to the principles and goals of the campaign”, which among others, works to decrease new HIV infection and teenage pregnancy rates among young girls. She Conquers Chairperson Legato Morulane said that while the organisation respected Conco’s traditions and her right to love and marry whomever she wishes, it’s aware of its responsibility within the community at large and wouldn’t want to send out contradictory messages to the country’s youth. “We are fully cognisant and respectful of Ms Conco’s cultural beliefs and practices. However, our primary focus is putting the needs of the young people of this country in the forefront and ensuring we are not sending out contradictory messages,” said said. READ MORE: Former President to take new wife – report “This affiliation is contrary to the principles that the SC campaign stands for.” The outrage comes against the backdrop of the ‘blesser’ phenomenon that continues to gain popularity, particularly among young girls and women who are lured into sexual relationships with older, wealthy men who upkeep their lifestyle. News of the couple’s impending nuptials broke on Friday. It was also revealed that Conco, who Zuma has paid lobola for, gave birth to a baby boy on 12 April – the same day Zuma turned 76. Zuma married his first wife, Gertrude Khumalo, popularly known as MaKhumalo, in 1973. He is divorced from second wife Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and widowed by his third wife, Kate Mansho, who committed suicide in 2000. In 2008, Zuma married his estranged fourth wife Nompumelelo Ntuli (MaNtuli). MaNtuli was banished from the Nkandla homestead after allegations of an affair with a bodyguard and a plot to poison Zuma surfaced. He went on to marry Thobeka Madiba in 2010 and Bongi Ngema in 2012.