South African fashion designer Laduma Ngxokolo, creator of the Maxhosa fashion brand, is determined to fight Spanish fashion giant Zara over what he sees as copyright infringement Zara is accused of copyright infringement for allegedly replicating Ngxokolo’s traditional Xhosa-inspired designs. The South African fashion brand said in a press statement that it was alerted by its patrons that Zara had copied one of its signature patterns. “These patterns were appropriated and reproduced in as part of their sock range which they shared as new in their best-sellers on their online store.” It said Zara’s sock range resembled its Khanyisa cardigan, which was launched in March 2014 at the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Johannesburg. READ MORE: Laduma Ngxokolo’s MaXhosa shawl is “The Most Beautiful Object in SA” “The cardigan is still available on our online store and has been on runways globally, the piece is still one of our bestsellers. The socks have been spotted at Zara outlets in UK, New York and here at home at Zara Sandton, South Africa,” the statement read. Ngxokolo told EWN that he was alerted earlier this month when shoppers spotted the socks and sent him images from the Zara Sandton City and New York stores. “The first thought was that it lacked integrity as they did not even modify the patterns, they had copied straight from patterns I had used for my collections, most notably the Khanyisa cardigan,” he told EWN. Maxhosa has since consulted with Shane Moore and Muhammad Patel from Moore Attorneys, one of Africa’s leading intellectual property law firms. “They have since sent a letter to the parent company alerting them of the copyright infringement and our demands. We have taken such steps so as to avoid our works being appropriated and adapted without our consent or permission.” It said copyright infringement is a matter it takes seriously and it is fully aware of its intellectual property rights. READ MORE: MaXhosa by Laduma expands to Japan “We would like to thank the clients who have silently sent us proof of such infringements as they allowed us means to act. The debate as to whether we shall win the case or not remains, we stand by our decision to fight such a case. Thus, we have sent our letter of demand and we await their reply,” the statement read.  Additional source: EWN 