South Africa mourns the loss of mother of our nation, Mam' Winnie Madikizela-Mandela - who passed away on Monday A statement from her family confirmed that Mam’ Winnie passed away “after a long illness” at Johannesburg’s Netcare Milpark Hospital on Monday afternoon. The 81-year-old struggle icon had been battling the illness since the start of the year, the statement added. She “succumbed peacefully” surrounded by family and loved ones. “She died after a long illness‚ for which she had been in and out of hospital since the start of the year. She succumbed peacefully in the early hours of Monday afternoon surrounded by her family and loved ones,” a statement released by Victor Dlamini on behalf of the family read. Her health had been the subject of headlines over the past 18 months, with Madikizela-Mandela spending previous bouts in the same hospital. READ MORE: Winnie Madikizela-Mandela recovering after being admitted to hospital Most recently in January she was hospitalised for a kidney infection after complaining of discomfort, pain in her leg and a loss of appetite. Funeral and memorial details would be released soon, according to the statement. South Africans reacted with great sadness to the news of the icon’s passing and reminded us of what a powerful woman she truly was. Here is the rest of the statement in full: “It is with profound sadness that we inform the public that Mrs Winnie Madikizela-Mandela passed away at the Netcare Milpark Hospital‚ Johannesburg‚ South Africa, on Monday April 2 2018. She died after a long illness‚ for which she had been in and out of hospital since the start of the year. She succumbed peacefully in the early hours of Monday afternoon surrounded by her family and loved ones.” “Mrs Madikizela-Mandela was one of the greatest icons of the struggle against apartheid. She fought valiantly against the apartheid state and sacrificed her life for the freedom of the country. Her activism and resistance to apartheid landed her in jail on numerous occasions‚ eventually causing her banishment to the small town of Brandfort in the then Orange Free State. She kept the memory of her imprisoned husband Nelson Mandela alive during his years on Robben Island and helped give the struggle for justice in South Africa one its most recognisable faces. She dedicated most of her adult life to the cause of the people and for this was known far and wide as the Mother of the Nation. “The Mandela family are deeply grateful for the gift of her life and even as our hearts break at her passing‚ we urge all those who loved her to celebrate this most remarkable woman. The family will release details of the memorial and funeral services once these have been finalised.” May your soul rest in peace, Mam’ Winnie.      