Here are five things you should know about the president's new economic advisor Trudi Makhaya President Cyrl Ramaphosa has entrusted Makhaya to spearhead an investment drive aimed at attracting $100 billion in new foreign investment to the country. Born and bred in Hammanskraal, Makhaya is a leading economist, writer and entrepreneur. She’s enjoyed an illustrious career in the public and private sector. She believes that the key to improving South Africa’s global competitiveness lies in fixing the ills that are crippling the education and health sectors, an increased focus on infrastructure development and poor governance. “It will take some sacrifice from all role-players in the economy. Wages and margins are high in South Africa. We need to transition to a moderate cost, highly productive economy,” she was quoted saying in a 2015 interview with Fin24. “We have to be unflinching in examining our weakness in education, health, governance and infrastructure and fix that.” Here are a few facts about the woman poised to kickstart SA’s economic growth: She’s very well educated Makhaya completed her undergraduate degree – a BCom in Law and Economics – as well as a Master’s degree in Economics from Wits University, before receiving a Rhodes scholarship to further her studies. READ MORE: Trudi Makhaya appointed as Ramaphosa’s economic adviser She completed her MBA and MSc in Development Economics at Oxford University. She’s a former Competition Commission deputy commissioner Makhaya joined the Competition Commission in 2010 as a principal economist and later became a member of the executive committee. She played a role in handing down the record R1,46 billion infringement fine issued against construction companies who were involved in price fixing bids for the construction of stadiums for the 2010 World Cup. She left the Competition Commission in 2014. She’s an entrepreneur and angel investor In 2015 Makhaya began her entrepreneurial journey, founding advisory firm Makhaya Advisory. She works closely with startup entrepreneurs, helping them establish their businesses. She’s also an angel advisor in young companies. She’s a regular media commentator and a published author You’d be surprised to know that Makhaya doesn’t only delve into serious matters, she also happens to be an author of a fictional work that’s been published in New Contrast and the Sol Plaatje European Union Poetry Anthology Vol IV. She’s an advocate for women’s breastfeeding rights In a Business Insider report Makhaya is quoted as an avid activist for women’s right when expressing breastmilk in the office.