A poor relationship with money and living your life according to the Yolo (you only live once) mantra are among the top reasons people struggle to save If you’re battling a monthly struggle to put money away for a rainy day, it’s probably because your attitude towards money is wrong. There’s nothing wrong with treating yourself from time to time, but if you’re getting yourself into debt to have the latest in fashion or to ‘live your best life’, this is a massive red flag and indicates that you don’t have a good relationship with money and spending. “It’s important to pay attention to how and what you spend your money on and ask if you are deriving any value from such expenses,” advises Eunice Sibiya, FNB Head of Consumer Education. Here are a few more of the most common factors holding people back from saving. Unrealistic financial goals While it’s critical to have financial goals, it’s equally important to set realistic financial goals for yourself. Setting unrealistic financial goals only makes it easier for you to fail. READ MORE: The habits that hold you back from saving “If you have unrealistic savings goals, it will be hard to maintain momentum and very soon, you will be overwhelmed and ultimately give up. Set realistic goals that are closely aligned to your personal financial circumstances,” says FNB Advisory Product Specialist Ester Ochse. Being governed by Yolo You should enjoy your life – you work hard for your money after all – but just as much as you’re living for today, you also can’t ignore tomorrow and your future. “It’s important to take the future into consideration when dealing with money, if you don’t save for both short and long-term goals, you may end up financially constrained in future. Have financial future plans and avoid living in the moment,” Sibiya advises. Procrastination Life is full of curveballs and if there’s one thing that is guaranteed, it’s the fact that unforeseen expenses crop up all the time so blaming your procrastinating tendencies on things you didn’t see coming or blaming your low income are not an acceptable excuses. READ MORE: How to optimise your rainy day savings At the heart of it, saving requires some level of sacrifice now and it doesn’t have to be a large amount of money that you’re putting aside. What’s important is that you get into the habit of saving and as your financial standing improves, you keep increasing your savings contributions. Procrastinating the decision to save can set you up for financial ruin when an emergency does occur because you’re likely to be forced to take on additional debt in order to cover the emergency. Not asking for help Just because you’re struggling to save now doesn’t mean that your situation can’t be fixed with the help of a financial adviser, so don’t be afraid to ask for help.