North West-based social entrepreneur Koketso Moeti is one of 20 people selected to participate in the inaugural Obama Foundation Fellowship Programme Moeti was selected from a pool of over 20 000 applicants from 191 countries around the world and is set to take part in the two-year, all-expenses-paid fellowship programme in the USA, where fellows will receive hands-on training and be put through a personalised development plan. She is the founder of amandla.mobi, a platform that’s geared towards helping communities use their cellphones as a democracy-building tool to hold public and private sector leaders to account. It serves as a platform that mobilises communities to unite behind mutual issues and injustices they may face and was born in 2014 after communities in the province faced possible eviction. “Cellphones harnessed the power to connect people in numbers, coordinate action, secure legal expertise and engage the community, the media and wider public on the latest developments. The ability to connect the community with a larger community of people took us from being just another poor community in a poor province, in an unequal country to being able to drive change with others,” Moeti said in a previous interview with DESTINY. READ MORE: Koketso Moeti on creating a platform to fight injustice “By being creative using the technology, we are able to enable people to hold leaders in government and corporations to account. We believe that there is power in people unifying over an issue, particularly when this comes from those most affected, who are often silenced or unheard.” The platform has a community of over 120 000 users who have used the platform to mobilise people around a wide host of issues. “These Obama Foundation Fellows are powerful examples of the many pathways we can take to improve our communities. These civic leaders bring a variety of disciplines and skill sets to their work, including community organising, healthcare, technology and the arts,” former US President Barack Obama said in a statement. “These leaders are working hand-in-hand with their communities to build better futures. They understand that creating change often requires reaching out across the lines that divide us. Their successes to date show how collaborative, community-driven work can lead to strong, imaginative and long-lasting solutions, even on some of our most intractable and polarising problems.”  