We take a look at the key financial lessons mothers should be teaching their daughters about money Raising a daughter is a challenging task in itself. Add to this the emerging context of a time when contemporary pop culture dictates that it’s cool to have a sugar daddy or, as they’re referred to these days, a ‘blesser’, and the task gets infinitely more complicated. This is because the idea of the blesser has the potential to undo the principles of financial independence you’ve worked hard to instil in your daughters from an early age by making it acceptable for a girl or woman to depend on a man financially. Nolene Parboo, head of savings and investments at Standard Bank, says preparing your daughter to be financially and emotionally independent means beginning the groundwork at home. A good place to start would be by reinforcing the importance of education as a stepping stone to financial freedom. “From an early age, help your daughter to realise that she has a right to education, career opportunities and to be in total control of her money regardless of marital status,” Parboo says. Daughters also need to understand the relationship between their careers and motherhood. It’s all good and well for a woman to marry a wealthy man who can afford her the benefit of staying home and raising the children, but young girls should also be advised about the career-limiting risks associated with being away from the workforce for extended periods of time. READ MORE: The first step to becoming financially independent “Staying out of the job market for five or 10 years can put a woman at risk,” Parboo says. “This may seem exaggerated, but if a woman totally gives up her career to raise a family, she may jeopardise her future work prospects. While it’s fine and even desirable to take a year or two off to raise a baby, a woman needs to keep her career skills current.” Your daughters should also learn the importance of taking out the various layers of insurance policies – such as life or disability insurance and retirement annuities – and be advised about when to ensure they’re covered. Internationally acclaimed lecturer and author of Dealmaker Kim Meredith says mothers and their daughters need to learn how to become dealmakers, which requires understanding your self-worth in order to get the salary you deserve. “Research has found there’s a direct link between your self-worth and what you think you’re worth,” Meredith says. “If you don’t see a positive link between yourself and your value, you won’t ask for enough when it comes to those salary increases.” “Men are four times more likely to ask for a salary increase than women, and by the time you reach retirement at the age of 65, you could have lost R5 million through not knowing what you’re worth,” she explains. Fine-tuning your negotiation skills, she adds, is an important skill to acquire in your wealth creation arsenal. Then there’s the rainy day or run-away fund. READ MORE: The 10 things every woman should know about money management Funeka Montjane, Standard Bank CEO for Personal and Business Banking, says every girl or woman should be taught the importance of paying themselves first, in the form of a savings account that they’re able to access when the need arises so they aren’t forced to stay in a toxic relationship. The other two elements that Montjane believes is critical to ensuring financial independence is investing in assets that are recorded in the woman’s name and not allowing herself to be underpaid – whether it’s in the workplace or at home. “Women do double the work men do, in that they have their day job and begin their second shift at home,” she explains. “Don’t do unpaid work because it might sound like a small thing. When you come in and do your second shift, you’ve got limited time, when you could be advancing your studies or starting a small business, or anything else that can advance your life. That time is precious and should be compensated for.” Parboo says that if your daughter can answer the questions below, then you’ll know you’ve prepared her well for financial independence later on in life.