Consumers have accepted over R1 billion in credit from Pick n Pay since the retail giant launched its credit offering less than seven months ago Cash-strapped consumers have taken up the offering in their droves, with 56 000 store accounts opened since September and over R1 billion in credit granted. At the time of its launch, the retailer faced backlash from debt experts who argue that if people are buying groceries on credit, they are already experiencing financial strain and extending further debt to these consumers is irresponsible lending. Pick n Pay defended its decision saying it partnered with credit provider RCS to design a product that cuts out hidden fees to deliver a more affordable credit offering. READ MORE: Pick n Pay customers can now make purchases on credit ‘The high cost of credit is a significant reason why customers have less disposable income for their grocery shopping. Hidden costs such as initiation fees, administration fees, mandatory insurance fees and penalty fees exacerbate the cost of credit,” Pick n Pay’s Deputy CEO Richard van Rensburg said at the time. “We have worked with RCS to design a product that has none of these hidden fees and the lowest possible monthly fee. Pick n Pay will not earn income from the credit-granting process. We have negotiated a great offer from the credit industry for our customers.” The service offers consumer lines of credit ranging from R1 000-R40 000, which can be used at all Pick n Pay stores, including its pharmacy and clothing outlets. Similarly to an ordinary credit card, consumers can enjoy 55 days of interest-free credit if the outstanding balance is paid in full each month and the monthly service fee is R10. A store account-holder can also authorise the issue of up to three secondary cards for others. The massive uptake of credit to purchase groceries in a short period illustrates just how financially distressed South African consumers are. READ MORE: Absa and Pick n Pay launch grocery stokvel account DebtSafe spokesperson Carla Oberholzer cautions consumers over taking on debt to purchase everyday items like groceries and instead advises consumers to focus on reducing their existing debt in order to free up disposable income. She says getting in control of your debt begins by going back to the basics. “Take the time to study your bank statements. This will help you identify any leakages and reckless spending habits,” Oberholzer advises. Cut out unnecessary expenses like eating out, fancy coffee, buying lunch and the gym contract you hardly ever use and make use of budgeting apps that will help you keep track of your spending.