It has been reported that former President Jacob Zuma will be getting married to Nonkanyiso Conco According to The Citizen, the former President and his family have reportedly paid lobola for Conco and both families are understood to be happy with the union. The publication is reporting that a source close to the two says both families are ecstatic. “He [Zuma] promised that he will marry the girl after his presidency, and he has kept that promise,” the unknown source was quoted as saying. It is reported that the family are yet to make an official announcement about the engagement, as attempts to officially confirm the union were unsuccessful on Friday morning. READ MORE: President Jacob Zuma marries his fourth wife Senior family member Ray Zuma told The Citizen that Zuma was no longer President and was living his life as a more private citizen. “His personal life should therefore not be seen as something for the public to see a problem with,” he was quoted as saying. Conco appeared to be a maiden at King Goodwill Zwelithini’s annual reed dance in 2013 and in the following years. She stands to be Zuma’s seventh wife. He married his first wife, Gertrude Khumalo, popularly known as MaKhumalo, in 1973. His most recent two marriages came in 2010 and 2012, to Thobeka Madiba and Gloria Ngema, respectively and his relationship with 2008 wife, Nompumelelo Ntuli (MaNtuli), who previously was his youngest wife, has been tense. She made headlines for an alleged affair with a bodyguard, who later died. The former President is divorced from second wife Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and lost his third wife, Kate Mansho, to suicide in 2000. Conco, who is apparently 26 years old, told Timeslive that she was set for marriage. READ MORE: Six things Zuma should be ashamed of “Yes‚ we are getting married‚ but that is all I can say. I need to consult before I give any interviews‚” the woman from Ballito was quoted as saying. According to Timeslive, she is a Director of the Pietermaritzburg-based Nomkhubulwane Culture and Youth Development Organisation‚ aimed at protecting the cultural practices of Zulu maidens. News24 reports that Zuma has become a father again after a 24-year-old woman gave birth to his child in a Durban hospital last week. According to News24, the child was born at the Busamed Hillcrest Private Hospital last Thursday on Zuma’s birthday. It has been reported that the former President, who is a polygamist, has fathered 22 children from at least 11 women. When News24 asked if Chonco was the same woman who had given birth to a baby earlier this month, Ray Zuma responded by asking: “So?” “I can’t see why you are interested. When he was still the President, you [the media] were terrorising him, and now you are all of a sudden interested in him, ” he was quoted as saying Sources: The Citizen, Timeslive and News24