The multi-billionaire was a guest on an annual event hosted by the radio station’s founder, Given Mkhari, called Chairman’s Conversation. Rupert, who is chair of the Swiss-based, luxury-goods company Richemont and the South Africa-based company Remgro, faced tough questions from the Johannesburg crowd following a two-hour, one-on-one conversation with Mkhari in which he touched on various topics including corruption, land expropriation, investor confidence and building a sustainable business, as well as the Afrikaner Broederbond. Speaking about Rembrandt, the business his father Anton founded 70 years ago, which was later split into Remgro and Richemont, he reminded Mkhari and the listeners that the business only started making a profit 30 years later, emphasising the fact that there was no such thing as overnight success. He also touched on the fact that unlike in other countries, the SA Revenue Services did not treat big business leaders like himself with the appreciation they received from their counterparts overseas, which he said doesn’t sit well with him as a loyal South African. “For very many years, our so-called family companies brought back more dividends than the rest of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange put together. These are facts. “So what do you get? You stay loyal to the country, you create jobs, you pay tax, and you know I give my salary away. I thought the job is, if you’re a good South African that’s what you do. In the rest of the world, people like people like that. They say: ‘Please come to our country to create jobs, please come to our country to pay proper salaries, please come to our country to pay tax, and then give donations.'” Tax Rupert was asked whether any of the dividends from his business abroad made their way back into South Africa. “Do you know the difference?” he said pointing out that a Swiss ambassador was in the attendance. “In Switzerland I got a letter of ‘Thank You’ from the taxman… but here they harassed me for eight years. So unlike what your friend with the red beret thinks [seemingly referring to EFF leader Julius Malema]… who said five years ago that I am ‘influential’ in SARS, no, no – the opposite.” 