Business mogul and actress Connie Ferguson is being sued by Beiersdorf AG, the owner of the Nivea brand, because some of her body products are allegedly too closely aligned to Nivea's Papers were filed in the Pretoria High Court in December last year and in it, the multinational company accuses the local star’s company, Koni Multinational Brands, of using the same Nivea signature blue container and silver and yellow fonts on the packaging of her men’s shower gel. Sowetan reports that Beiersdorf wants Ferguson interdicted in order to “restrain the respondent from passing off its Connie Body Care Men Active  Shower Gel as being that or as being associated with that of the applicant, by making use of a get-up in respect of the infringing shower gel which is likely to cause confusion or deception in the market as to the source of its goods or as to its connection or relationship with the applicant”. READ MORE: The Fergusons: TV’s power couple The company says it has generated over R8,7 billion in turnover from the South African market since 2012, of which around R258 million of this turnover came from shower gel sales.  Court papers reveal that Beiersdorf relies on pictures of its packaging dating as back as 1925, demonstrating the company’s longstanding use of its distinctive blue packing with white writing. “In 2008 the applicant relaunched its Nivea Men range by, inter alia, applying a new get-up to its Nivea Men packaging, the applicant added the color silver to its distinctive blue and white get-up. The applicant is, in fact, aware of actual confusion in the trade,” court papers state. Ferguson couldn’t immediately be reached for comment, but in answering affidavits filed at the High Court this week, Ferguson and her business partner Groovin Nchabeleng, accused Beiersdorf of being a bully.  “The respondent is bringing healthy competition to the men’s shower gel market and the applicant, being a multinational company, is trying to bully and intimidate the respondent by bringing this baseless application,” the court papers read. Ferguson launched Koni Multinational Brands in 2012. READ MORE: Connie Ferguson’s most epic moments on “Generations: The Legacy” They claim that the multinational is targetting them over other brands like Clere, Vaseline and Protex, which also make use of similar packaging and colour palettes. “The applicant cannot claim monopoly over the blue, white and silver colours,” the pair said.