Playwright and director Nandi Nhlapho is the co-founder of the Wombman Movement, a theatre company that tells stories of the plight of black South African women In 2017, South Africa was rattled by the tragic death of Karabo Mokoena, whose burnt body was found in Lyndhurst, Gauteng. Her ex-boyfriend Sandile Mantsoe is currently awaiting trial for her brutal murder. In the wake of the hashtag #MenAreTrash, which became the rallying cry for those who want to stop an epidemic of violence against women, Nandi Nhlapho and Mamodibe Ramodibe decided to launch the Wombman Movement to tackle issues around black masculinity, gender roles, safety and patriarchy. “We realised that women who are victims of violence are often reduced to a catchy hashtag and 150 characters,” says Nhlapho. “What’s even more troubling is that such stories are often only topical for a few weeks until the next news story breaks. We refuse to let the lives of such women be reduced to the hot topic of the week. Conversations cannot just stop – for change to happen people need to constantly be engaging and speaking, looking for a way forward.” Changing the narrative The theatre company’s first show Echoes Of A Silenced Girl had two runs at the J&B Hive in Braamfontein and Emakayani Studios above the Wits Art Museum. READ MORE: Young director Sibabalwe Sesmani is a game-changer The story focuses on two young women who are navigating a world that doesn’t seem to want them to win. It’s a story about fighting even when all the odds are stacked against you and finding the inner strength to continue, but also about how we, as a society need to change. The production was followed by a panel discussion about black masculinity and its effect on the South African female body. “We relied heavily on the real life stories of our cast so we had to ensure that the actresses were ready to share and be vulnerable,” explains Nhlapho. “We also created a safe space for both the audience and performers to speak out about the violence women face and remove any stigma associated with it.” Nhlapho is also the content creator and producer at The OTA project, a broadcasting and media production company that aims to collaborate with young creatives to tell stories that reflect the unique realities of young, black, queer South Africans. OTA’s first show Hathor showcased fashion, music and visual art created by young queer artists, many of which went on to enjoy commercial success. Nhlapho is currently working on rehearsals for a play that is set to debut on 16 of May at Wits University Corner. Looking ahead, her goal is to create a sustainable theatre industry. “I want theatre artists to be paid well and respected. I also envision Wombman Movement becoming synonymous with women’s rights and justice,” she concludes.