ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule has shot down speculation that ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) member Senzo Mchunu would be in President Cyril Ramaphosa's Cabinet, saying Mchunu will be working in a full-time party post Speaking to journalists on the sidelines of the special NEC meeting on Sunday, Magashule confirmed that Mchunu will be working at Luthuli House as head of the organising sub-committee, along with North West’s former Secretary Dakota Lekgwete. There has been wide speculation that Mchunu, a former KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Chairperson, was set to take over the State Security portfolio. “Senzo will be chairing and organising full-time, along with Lekgwete,” Magashule said. Mchunu was one of Ramaphosa’s key campaigners in KZN and also his preference for the Secretary-General position in the run-up to the party’s 54th elective conference in December. He narrowly lost the position to Magashule in December. READ MORE: Ace Magashule stays on as ANC Chairperson in Free State Some delegates had vowed to take the matter to the courts. ‘Here to discuss Cabinet, not deputy’ According to some in the ANC, Mchunu’s move to Luthuli House would help strip some power from Magashule, who is often seen to be at odds with Ramaphosa and some in the top six. Magashule said Ramaphosa would discuss whom he wanted to take over as state Deputy President. He said the matter did not form part of the NEC’s agenda. “The President will discuss with us and various structures and alliance partners. It’s not a matter for the NEC. We will be engaging ourselves on the Cabinet reshuffle,” he said. Magashule, however, could not say when the announcement would be made. ANC Deputy President and Mpumalanga Premier David “DD” Mabuza was expected to take over the role of Deputy President. READ MORE: Hawks raid Magashule’s office over Vrede dairy case Sources within the NEC told News24 that Mabuza was likely to take over Ramaphosa’s previous role. One NEC member told News24 that Mabuza was the man for the job. “No-one has done what DD managed in Mpumalanga. He consolidated the province and with him, we can get a two-third majority in 2019. He is a crowd-puller and no-one can compare to him. It’s unanimous. Any other dissenting voice is baseless.” – News24