In business, 'leverage' is the effective utilisation of resources and assets available to you And frankly, the art of leverage is what differentiates the good from the great. The question must then be: How do you effectively leverage your resources for a more profitable, productive business? You can start with delegation. For all of the programming he did in the ’80s, you can bet Bill Gates isn’t patching the latest security vulnerability found in Office 365, nor is Tim Cook soldering iPhones. People are your business’s greatest resource. For those of you with reservations, you need to understand that there simply aren’t enough hours in the day to do it all yourself. And even if you think you can, it is just about the least effective way to leverage your time. Successful delegation allows an entire team to work more effectively, a considerable boost to your business’s overall productivity if each individual effectively has the same man-hours as you do. Why not transform what used to take you hours to complete into a few minutes of strategic leadership, freeing up your time to contribute elsewhere? It’s important to note that leverage necessitates change. Change is understandably difficult; resistance to change is natural. Masterful artists of leverage, however, do not shy away from discomfort, realising the enormous potential it has for business. Instead, be prepared for and facilitate your team’s resistance. If you’re struggling to motivate them, consider selling them the same promise that sold you on the change. The more you can explain the ‘why’ behind the project, the more motivated and engaged they’ll be. Be clear about what needs to happen and what a job well done looks like. Don’t be afraid to reward those who embrace change and work well within their new role. Leverage means ever more with ever less, and even handsome rewards – what are effectively small costs can translate into large boosts in team morale, productivity and arrest resistance to change. What’s also important to understand when mastering leverage is where to target it first. The key is to focus on the biggest point of pain in your business, granting you the biggest value on return first. Yes, it will require a little babysitting at first, but that’s a small price to pay for a potentially huge return on investment.