Mavuso, who is now signed to Black Coffee's label, Soulistic Music, promises South Africans that his upcoming album will be worth the listen Sunday Blues singer, Langa Mavuso (24), will be performing in this year’s Red Bull Music Festival (RBMF) alongside Trompies, Oskido, 340 Million, Moozie, Distruction Boyz and others. The flagship RBMF event will boast a blockbuster contingent of 80 local, pan-African and global acts set to take over Joburg for six days from 3-8 April. “I’m really excited to play at a stage so big for the first time with Red Bull. It feels like all my years of working and proving myself are starting to show and I am beginning to reap the fruits of my labour. I look forward to showcasing a layered musical experience,” he says. READ MORE: Chivas Regal partners with Nhlanhla Nciza to mentor upcoming musicians Up-and-coming jazz soul sensation reckons signing with Black Coffee’s label has opened up numerous opportunities and connect him to a larger audience. “My new album will be released hopefully sometime in the colder months of the year,” he says. Mavuso says Red Bull South Africa have always supported him through bookings and giving him the opportunity to work in its world-class studios in Cape Town. “This relationship started many years ago and the growth they’ve seen me through is immense. They’re a huge part of my journey. Sometimes people even think I’m signed to Red Bull Music because that’s how much a part of my journey they’ve been,” says Mavuso. He believes that South African music industry is an exciting space filled with a lot of emerging and dynamic talent. He says the industry has been incredibly kind to him. “It’s a very intimidating place. It’s not always easy being around people who constantly question your presence. Sometimes it feels like a huge game of: ‘Like me, please, I deserve to be here. Look, I’m talented.’ I understand the reasons behind that though because they are many chancers too. It’s a tool of discernment, I guess,” says Mavuso. READ MORE: Musician Thiwe on finally holding her new album in her hands He doesn’t only consider himself as a musician, but also an entrepreneur. He has been striving to make quality music since he ventured into the business and often promotes it through social media. Talking about working closely with the Red Bull Music Academy, Mavuso says it has open up a huge network of musicians to him and is also a brand which is interested in realising the growth of musicians. “They will support you in every way they can and will share insights with you that aren’t always just readily available to someone who isn’t deep in the industry,” he says.