President Cyril Ramaphosa's late-night Cabinet reshuffle and deployment of Bathabile Dlamini to the Women's ministry once again highlights the very little regard the government has in championing the fight for women In a time where women are literally under siege – facing assault onslaughts from intimate partners and many being killed at the hands of their partners – you would think that issues affecting women would be at the top of Ramaphosa’s agenda. He’s waxed lyrical about the importance of gender equality and better representation of women in government, but there’s a glaring disconnect between his words and his actions. Granted that Ramaphosa was forced to walk a fine line between cleaning house and appeasing his party, he has left millions of South African women feeling disappointed, disrespected and disregarded by his choice of Dlamini to champion our cause. READ MORE: Bathabile Dlamini survives reshuffle axe If we’re honest with ourselves, in the two-and-a-half years that Dlamini has held the position of ANC Women’s League president, what exactly has she done to advance the women’s movement and gender equality in the country? Not a whole lot, according to Gender Links CEO Colleen Lowe-Morna, who says the fact that Dlamini has been entrusted with the Women’s ministry is a travesty of justice. “Not to fire Bathabile is such a travesty of justice. She has singlehandedly supported[former President Jacob] Zuma, she’s not stood on principle. She says she supports the idea of a woman President when it was Nkosazana [Dlamini-Zuma], she didn’t support any of the other woman candidates,” Lowe-Morna says. “She supported Nkosazana basically because she was a Zuma faction candidate and the ANCWL stood strongly by the man acquitted of rape charges, a philander, a polygamist and all the other things that undermine the quest for women’s rights in society.” For the gender rights advocacy group, it’s clear that Ramaphosa’s new Cabinet is one of compromise and focused on avoiding a factional split. READ MORE: Dept confirms it paid SABC to profile Minister Bathabile Dlamini “It really shows that the Women’s ministry means nothing at all, just another ministry that’s there. There’s no thought about what that ministry represents or what it needs to do. The department is being led by a Minister who failed dismally in her stewardship on the Social Development ministry which is one of the most important for women,” Lowe-Morna says. “The message sent out now is the one that will be remembered, and that message is that women’s empowerment is so low on the list of priorities that the President is willing to sacrifice this ministry in the most cynical way out of political expediency.” While many are arguing that Ramaphosa’s move could be explained away by his desire to sideline Dlamini for the time being ahead of the entire ministry potentially being disbanded, it still remains a slap in the face of women. The gender rights group does, however, applauded the appointment of four women to portfolios – Science and Technology, State Security, Defence and Military and Sports and Recreation – traditionally dominated by men. 