Comedienne and presenter Tumi Morake will be hanging up her mic to pursue other career opportunities In a shock statement released by Jacaranda FM on Wednesday, Morake said she’d be leaving the breakfast show she co-hosts with Martin Bester next week Friday. “This was not an easy decision for me at all. The timing was just not right for this relationship, it is like leaving a lover that you are still in love with,” she said. “I really hope that fate will bring us together again one day.” Morake and hubby Mpho Osei-Tutu plan on co-writing a movie and she’s also set to embark on an international stand-up tour in Australia with Ndumiso Lindi. Bester will continue to host the breakfast show alongside former Miss South Africa Liesl Laurie and Elma Smit. READ MORE: Jacaranda FM stands with Tumi Morake It wasn’t the easiest year for Morake last year, after being slated on social media by angry white Jacaranda listeners, who accused her of being racist for remarks she made relating to the country’s transition into democracy. “It’s like a child whose bicycle was taken forcefully away from him and then you say to the bully: ‘No, no, no, share the bike together, don’t be like that’,” Morake said. As a result of this, Eric Barnard Meubels, a furniture store in Pretoria that advertises with Jacaranda FM for R100 000 a month, decided to pull its advertising from the station, citing Morake’s comments as the reason for the withdrawal. “Comments made by that lady [Tumi Morake] are very racial and political. I cannot associate with a station that takes one side. By taking away the advertising, we’re saying enough is enough,” Marius Barnard, Director of the store, said in an interview with Huffington Post at the time. READ MORE: Tumi Morake bags radio gig “My performance career is taking a new direction and unfortunately radio, with the time and energy it requires at this level, doesn’t fit into those plans,” she said. “I had a great time and learnt many valuable lessons, yes, even when the pawpaw hit the fan. I wouldn’t change it for the world.”