Suits have been on the fashion agenda for quite a while now and we simply just love how versatile and feminine they are. Get your suit game on with these four looks The office look  Images from Instagram and Vogue For the working professional, a well-structured suit is definitely a power statement that will turn heads. It screams confidence, intelligence and strength, especially when you’re about to walk into a boardroom full of men. We recommend keeping your colours to the minimal. If you don’t want to wear heels, we suggest wearing your suit with a neutral shade of shoes; sleek loafers or polished brogues will still be office-appropriate. If I were a boy  Both images from Instagram This chic edgy look has been around for a while and we don’t think it’s about to go anywhere. It’s effortlessly cool and dressy enough to be worn at semi-formal events. It’s also the perfect transformation from the office (if your work environment is laid back) to a lunch date or the club. The trick to nailing this look is getting the sneakers right; it can be a complete miss if your sneakers are wrong. A safe option is white sneakers. If you want to rather go for colour, then make sure the colour/s of your suit and sneakers complement each other. Bringing sexy back  Images from Designerscentral Another stylish way to wear your suit is with no top underneath. We love how incredibly sexy and appealing this look is, although we cannot stress enough how important wearing the right bra is. If you are lucky enough not to have to wear a bra, then simply tape your breasts to ensure they’re slightly lifted and that your nipples aren’t visible. READ MORE: How to get the perfect bra fit Street style  Images from Instagram and the Gloss Bonang’s suit game was on lock down at the NYFW SS17. Though many may think this look was a miss, the fashionistas disagree. “Bonang killed that look. Not everyone can rock an oversized long jacket and pants that cover the shoe,” says founder of Style Alert, Thuli Mola. We love this easy-going look, mostly because of the wide leg. It can suit most body shapes.