Looking to brighten up your skin and your day? We have your guide to beautiful, brighter skin, no matter your age We’re all looking to achieve that coveted summer glow, but the older we get, the harder it is for us to find products that best suit our skin, let alone give us the radiance we’re looking for. What products should you be using to get your skin luminescent and looking beautiful at any age? Your 20s Youth brings with it a lot of advantages – mainly your skin’s elasticity and ability to heal itself. With so little to correct, getting glowing skin in your 20s is as easy as exfoliating and masking for the perfect glow. Exfoliate to buff away any dead skin cells on your face so your skin’s natural glow can shine through. However, keep in mind that you should not exfoliate your skin more than three times a week. For an instant skin boost (perfect for date night), apply a face mask that will help even out your skin tone and remove impurities. DESTINY recommends:  L’Oréal Pure Clay Bright Mask, R160 Your 30s Your skin looking a little dull and tired? Your 30s are some of your best years, so your skin should look as radiant as you feel. Maintaining the elasticity in your skin while protecting it is a must at this pivotal age, as this is when the early signs of ageing will begin to reveal themselves. The best product that will last throughout the day is a moisturiser with anti-aging properties and an SPF to firm your skin ,while also shielding it from harmful UVA and UVB rays. DESTINY recommends:  L’Oréal Revitalift Laser Renew SPF 20, R260 Your 40s and upwards Once you’ve gone beyond the prime years of your life, good skincare requires a little extra vigilance. Your routine should also include products that impact your skin’s health even while you sleep. Using products that contain glycolic acid, which gently exfoliates the skin while you sleep, will leave your skin more receptive to the active ingredients in your overnight skincare products, allowing them to penetrate deeper and work better. Adding a brightening anti-wrinkle treatment to your night-time skin care cocktail will also help diminish fine lines (practically overnight) and tighten your skin. DESTINY recommends:  L’Oréal Revitalift Bright Reveal Brightening Dual Overnight Moisturiser, R400