Water has become a key asset class for savvy investors. Here’s how to turn one of life’s basic necessities into a money-maker “SA’s water infrastructure is in the same state as our electricity was back in 2005,” states Hendrik Snyman, Principal at infrastructure investment company Gaia Group. Fred Platt, CEO of Accentuate, agrees: “What we’re seeing in Cape Town is the trailer to the movie.” The message is clear: while we can’t control rainfall, we can – and should – be controlling how water’s collected and stored. “SA’s prone to drought and these episodes will become more frequent,” comments Linda Downsborough, lecturer and researcher at Monash South Africa. Bad news for us, but potentially good news for investors. Ringetani Ndlovu, Investment Analyst at Futuregrowth Asset Management, explains that water investment can take many forms, from an equity or debt provider for a specific project (such as a desalination plant or the construction of a dam) to an entity that provides services or equipment in the water sector, or even the provision of debt financing to a water board. Bulk water provided to industry, agriculture or municipalities’ water is used and then collected as sewerage or effluent. This is treated, then released once more into dams. Throughout these various stages, innovation and technology mean that investors may find several destinations for their funds, from rainwater harvesting with simple tanks or sophisticated systems to materials that can store rainwater underground once it’s been collected to the construction of dams and reservoirs and point-of-use purification plants. Snyman points out that because of a lack of legislation to regulate interaction between private capital and public infrastructure, SA offers just two concessions for investors: Sembcorp Siza and Silulimanzi. Fortunately, government’s aware of the need for private-sector investment, as demonstrated by its partnership with the Water Research Commission to host last year’s Water Infrastructure Investment Summit. With R40 billion required to fix backlogs in infrastructure, it’s easy to see why the public sector is pushing for investment – but the benefits for investors are just as attractive, says Snyman. “Because there’s little competition and no fluctuation in demand, this is a relatively low-risk investment. Returns come in the form of a steady cash flow, rather than capital appreciation, and since both the business model and demand are transparent, you can plan in advance,” he says. However, he cautions that long lead times are required to develop projects. Ndlovu says the pros and cons depend on the type of investment. “Overall, the water sector’s relatively defensive because water is a scarce resource which will always be needed. Dynamics of supply and demand mean that innovation in this sector (especially related to increasing efficiency and reducing wastage) is becoming more important and this creates exciting opportunities for investors with a risk appetite.” A further advantage, she adds, is that water infrastructure projects lend themselves to a cost recovery model allowing operations debt and expenses to be serviced from tariffs. On the other hand, investors should remember that certain infrastructure projects – like dams – can’t pledge assets as security because they’re not privately owned. Either way, the time to act is now, says Downsborough. “Proactive planning and investment in water are critical. Reactive investment may, in some cases, lead to over-inflated prices for products and infrastructure, or to unsustainable or incompatible solutions.” – THE NUMBERS Bhavtik Vallabhjee, Head of Power, Utilities & Infrastructure at Absa Corporate & Investment Bank, provides some grim statistics that highlight the need for private-sector investment in water infrastructure: This article appeared in the March issue of DESTINY magazine and we inadvertently referred to Monash University instead of Monash South Africa. We apologise for the error. 