Errol Velile Present, the former ANC man linked to cash-in-transit heists, served as part of President Cyril Ramaphosa's security risk analysis team while on the ANC presidential campaign trail, the Mail & Guardian reports The ANC has moved quickly to distance Ramaphosa from Present, with party spokesperson Pule Mabe telling the newspaper Ramaphosa wouldn’t have been aware of his involvement in the campaign. “The President might not have been aware that he [Present] was campaigning for him. We encourage staffers to maintain a distance from internal political processes,” he said. ANC insiders have revealed that he was part of an advanced security team that assessed security threats at stops as Ramaphosa criss-crossed the nation in the gruelling run-up to the battle at Nasrec last year. READ MORE: How former ANC man was caught after cash-in-transit heist Present – who up until Wednesday this week was an ANC branch secretary in Dobsonville, Soweto – has largely been described as a fixer and a man who could bring calm to tense situations of infighting. “He was the organiser who would organise activities of the ANC in different provinces, doing audits for ANC membership, ensuring that where there were infightings within structures of the ANC, he would be deployed to stabilise the branches,” the source was quoted saying. In an interview with eNCA, Present’s wife, Zanele, said she believes in her husband’s innocence ,after witnesses failed to point him out in an identity parade the line-up. “They said he was not there. No-one was identified. I don’t understand why he is still being detained if they have nothing on him‚” she said. READ MORE: Everything we know about former ANC employee Errol Velile Present Present was arrested earlier this month, along with three alleged accomplices police believe were behind a cash-in-transit heist that occurred in Dobsonville. Police Minister Bheki Cele said Present has thus far been linked to three cash heists. Zanele said the strain and shock of her husband’s arrest had caused her significant stress. “I was so shocked, I’m not even coping. I have lost weight because I can’t even eat. I can’t talk to him and ask him to explain what is going on,” she said.