President Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma on Wednesday defended late former President Nelson Mandela against accusations that he was a sell-out during negotiations for the country’s democracy Ramaphosa and Zuma shared the stage at the Nelson Mandela centenary celebrations held at Mandela’s birthplace of Mvezo in Mthatha, Eastern Cape. The two leaders were invited by Mvezo Chief Zwelivelile Mandla Mandela, along with other former South African Presidents Kgalema Motlanthe, Thabo Mbeki and FW de Klerk. Mbeki and De Klerk did not attend, and a recorded speech of De Klerk was played at the venue. In his video speech, De Klerk said the country needed to re-evaluate itself and reflect on the values Mandela imparted on each person. Zuma, who took to the stage first, said: “Madiba never sold out, he fought for this country.” Zuma said the failure to build on the foundation Mandela laid brought about the claims that he was a sell-out. READ MORE: Graca Machel shares intimate memories of Nelson Mandela “Madiba brought political freedom, if we failed to use it to advance economic freedom let’s not blame Madiba, let’s blame ourselves.” Ramaphosa said Mandela created the platform to take the struggle forward. “I want to stress and restress what former President Jacob Zuma said, Madiba did not sell out, underline that, Madiba did not sell out. Madiba never had it in him to sell out anything,” said Ramaphosa. He also lashed out at those who kept repeating the criticism. “Those who are saying Madiba was a sell out are armchair revolutionaries,” Ramaphosa said. The day also saw the official opening of a clinic named after Mandela’s mother, Nosekeni Nongaphi Mandela. Ramaphosa said the clinic would service the people of Mvezo. “Madiba would be glad to see that we are still committed to his dream of assisting the elderly, people with disabilities and children with a basic monthly income of social grants,” said Ramaphosa. READ MORE: Barack Obama delivers annual Nelson Mandela Lecture He said Mandela would be very concerned about the resurgence of racism. “There is no place for racism in South Africa, no place for tribalism in our country and no place for ethnic chauvinism in the country of Nelson Mandela.” – African News Agency