These are some of the personalities we spotted at the University of the Witwatersrand's graduation ceremony Ashwin Willemse, who has been involved in an ongoing dispute with SuperSport, after he walked off set in May has graduated with a master’s degree in entrepreneurship and new ventures. Wits University tweeted a picture of Willemse in his graduation gown, alongside wife Michelle, who also graduated with a philosophy degree on Tuesday. The former Springbok star emphasised the transformative power of education. “Education is the path to wherever your heart desires, to wherever your courage will take you; it is the path to true liberation,” said Willemse in an audio clip distributed by the university. READ MORE: UJ to confer honorary doctoral degree on renowned Ndebele artist Esther Mahlangu “Our human dignity is embedded in education because, through education, we get to know ourselves; once you know yourself, you can give the world your authentic self,” he said.   Apart from Willemse, the Thursday graduation ceremony featured other well-known personalities, including former The Star newspaper editor Makhudu Sefara, award-winning radio host Thabo “Tbose” Mokwele and former Backstage and Generation actor Dini Nodumo. Tbose, who has graduated with a master’s degree in strategic communication, took to social media to post a video of the moment he went on stage to receive his qualification. READ MORE: South Africans rally behind Ashwin Willemse following on-air walkout The radio personality tweeted that he had dedicated his master’s degree to his late father. “This is for my Dad! Thank you!” he tweeted.  Sefaro, who earned a master’s degree in management and innovation studies, celebrated his achievement on Facebook. “The people to thank are too many to mention. This is one moment to pause and thank God, friends, family and former colleagues at the City of Johannesburg who have contributed in many different ways. Thank you! Indeed education must be a lifelong pursuit. On to the next one,” he wrote. Additional reporting: News24 Wire  