A DESTINY reader asked us how to treat her oily skin, which becomes dry during winter. We give you the best products to solve this problem The change in season can give us all the skincare blues. A DESTINY reader asked us how to treat her oily skin, which gets dry during winter. We give you the best products to solve this problem. Dealing with seasonally dry skin when your normal skincare products are for oily skin means altering your usual beauty routine to match your skin’s needs. Take care of skin by using these tips and products to prevent winter dryness. Watch your cleanser If you’re using a cleanser designed for your normally oily skin, keep it, but watch what it does to your skin. Cleansing is one of the most important steps of your routine, but using a cleanser that makes your skin feel dry immediately after use is a no-no when you’re dealing with seaosonally dry skin. If your cleanser’s doing more harm than good, look for a sulfate-free one for oily skin. Facial cleansers that contain sulfates can contribute to the drying out of your skin. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  Bioderma Sebium Purifying Cleansing Gel, R220 Tone it down While many may not subscribe to using a toner daily after cleansing, if you find your skin feels sensitive to the touch or you notice redness and inflammation after cleansing, then applying a toner that soothes and hydrates your skin is a necessary step to looking after dry skin during the winter months. Bind moisture to the skin while hydrating and soothing with Dermalogica’s Multi-Active Toner, infused with soothing lavender, balm mint and arnica. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  Dermalogica Multi-Active Toner, R695 Serious serum-ing Dry skin inevitably leads to premature ageing and the development of wrinkles, so using a product that makes a concentrated effort to tackle your dry skin and works to turn back the clock is ideal, making adding a hydrating, anti-ageing serum to your winter skincare routine imperative. Sisley’s Hydra-Global Serum does more than simply hydrate your skin – it also teaches your skin how to auto-hydrate and restore its natural levels of moisture. Apply morning and evening to clean dry skin using a gentle massaging motion in order to stimulate blood flow, which will help you reap the full benefits of this gem. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  Sisley Hydra Global Anti-Aging Hydration Serum, R3 360  Mask on When looking for a serious hydration boost, applying a hydrating face mask to your skin for 10 minutes will not only give your skin the hydration it needs – keeping your skin looking healthy and glowing – but will also serve as your 10 minutes of “me-time” that your body might desperately need. Grab a cup of tea and sigh over the hydrating and moisturising effects of our favourite mask. DESTINY RECOMMENDS:  Clarins SOS Hydra Refreshing Hydrating Mask, R52