The local version of the Real Housewives franchise will be hitting SA screens next month. These are the Jozi-based women who are about to let us into their lives Just like its global counterparts, the South African instalment of The Real Housewives promises viewers a behind-the-scenes peak into the lives of six rich and fabulously “fiery” women from the City of Gold – from VIP parties to their extensive collection of handbags and stilettos. “We are excited to be able to bring our viewers a South African version of The Real Housewives, a great franchise that has done so well internationally. The Real Housewives of Johannesburg will be a great treat for 1Magic viewers,” said Reneilwe Sema, Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. READ MORE: Celebrity restaurant franchisees The show will make its debut on 3 August at 7pm on 1Magic, DStv channel 103. Anchoring the show is Evodia Mogase, who is also described as the Madame. She’s a former teacher turned entrepreneur who went on to start a catering business. These days, she’s considered a vegetation expert. Joining Mogase is her daughter Mercy, who is a Herbalife ambassador, motivational speaker and a mechanical engineer by training. She describes herself as “bubbly” and is a self-confessed health fanatic. We also meet a warm and charming beauty entrepreneur who owns a spa, Brinnette Seopela. She finds her happy ending at the heart of this series and is the glue that holds the Housewives together. We’ll get to know the woman behind Naked DJ – Naledi Willers. She’s a former Miss Botswana second princess and is studying towards a law degree. READ MORE: Diski Divas Kat and Wendy fired after a physical altercation: Will reality TV ever stop perpetuating negative stereotypes of black women? Not afraid to speak her mind, she’s got a strong presence and she says she never leaves a stone unturned. Durban-born Christall Kay is a former lawyer and model turned businesswoman who is looking for her big break in the music industry. Rounding off the local line-up of housewives is mother-of-two Busisiwe Ter Mors, aka Lendy. Raised in England, she’s an avid golfer who enjoys the finer things in life.