Here's how to make sure buying a car isn't going to land you deep in a debt hole that you'll struggle to get out of South African consumers tend to enjoy the finer things in life, especially as far as their wheels are concerned. Many motorists don’t mind getting themselves into major debt, whether it be to extend the vehicle financing payment terms over six years, choosing a balloon payment option or not putting down a deposit – all in the name of causing around in the latest “must-have” car. All of the above might seem like a good idea at the time, but Colin Morgan, Director at used car retailer getWorth, says these are some of the worst mistakes car buyers make. “Interest on car loans is an expensive cost, so the simple advice is: make as high a deposit as you can and pay the loan back as fast as you can afford,” he advises. READ MORE: The good, bad and the ugly news about balloon payments “For example, if you repay R100 000 of finance over 48 months with 12,5% interest, you will have paid about R27 500 in interest over that period. Extend the repayment period to 72 months and your total interest bill rises to around R42 500.” The general rule as far as residual values or balloon payments are concerned is that if you can only afford a car by signing an agreement that obligates you to pay a lump-sum at the end of the loan term, you actually really can’t afford the car and you should be looking at something cheaper. “If you find that you have to take 72 month repayment terms with a large balloon at the end to afford the monthly repayments on the car you want, we suggest opting for a more affordable model,” he advises. What many people don’t realise is how much additional interest you wind up paying. Using the same example of R100 000 over 72 months costing you R42 500, Morgan says financing R125 000 with a R25 000 balloon payment would end up costing you R61 400 in interest. There’s also the burden of having to come up with the money to cover the balloon payment when it becomes due. READ MORE: How to get your vehicle finance application approved first time “Almost every car loan on a new car with no deposit will have a period during which the value of your car is less than the settlement value on your loan,” he says. “Lower deposits and longer terms will result in a larger shortfall and it will take longer to close the gap. If something happens and you need to sell your car, you will have to come up with cash to fund the shortfall.” So before you sign on the dotted line, make sure you have saved up to put down a deposit and avoid the temptation of choosing a balloon payment option.