After months of infighting, Patricia de Lille will finally get her chance to defend herself against the various allegations levelled at her - an exercise that will either clear or damage her name moving forward De Lille and the DA reached an agreement late on Wednesday night ahead of a planned motion of no confidence. The DA agreed to speed up the embattled Cape Town Mayor’s disciplinary proceedings, while also granting two of De Lille’s oft-cited requests: to provide her with the evidence used to compile the party’s internal “Steenhuisen report” against her conduct and to have the hearings opened to the media. READ MORE: De Lille vs DA ruling expected before month end In exchange, the party would withdraw its motion of no confidence against her in council, and the status quo will remain until the proceedings are concluded. De Lille told journalists in her offices late on Thursday following the marathon council meeting that she was very happy with the outcome. “At last now we are going to proceed with a proper disciplinary hearing. That is what I asked for all along. I also owe the country, to give them my side of the story, and my ultimate aim is to clear my name. “A lot of untested allegations have been put out in public without evidence, and for the first time now it’s going to be tested, so I’m very happy about that.” De Lille said she had a frank conversation with DA leader Mmusi Maimane on Wednesday evening. Without giving too much detail away, she said they both came to the same conclusion, that the best way forward was to finish the disciplinary proceedings initiated against her. When asked if she considered the outcome a victory, she answered: “I feel very relieved. “I wish we could have done this more than six months ago, we would not be where we are today. With a sense of sanity having prevailed, one could ask the question, “what took so long?” “There have been various factors,” DA Deputy Federal Council Chairperson Natasha Mazzone said frankly on Thursday evening. “This particular issue has been dragged out for a long time, and it’s caused a lot of confusion and a lot of unnecessary tension. “We are of the opinion that this is the way to resolve the matter as speedily as possible, and in a pleasant way as possible and in a transparent way as possible. READ MORE: DA clause used to terminate De Lille membership meant to protect party, court hears “We believe in holding mayor Patricia de Lille to account.” Mazzone told News24 she was not personally in the meeting with Maimane and De Lille, but had “no doubt that it was cordial, and a consensus-based meeting”. As for the possible outcome, and party’s confidence in its case, Mazzone said they did not want to pre-empt the process. De Lille had the last word, admitting that they don’t all have to get along, but they do have to work for the City. “We all have to work together. I’ve always put the City of Cape Town first, and I expect those councillors [who are unhappy with me] to also do so.” — News24 Wire and African News Agency