Facebook provides some insight into the former ANC employee, who was arrested for involvement in a cash-in-transit heist The 33-year-old Present, who was employed at ANC’s Luthuli House headquarters. was among four men police nabbed for a cash-in-transit armed robbery in Soweto. On Wednesday, the ANC has confirmed that it had dismissed him and that he would face disciplinary hearing charges as an ordinary party member. Present’s Facebook account shows that he is an active political member of the party. One image posted in August last year showed that he even put his name up to be elected as Chairperson of a Gauteng sub-region. READ MORE: How former ANC man was caught after cash-in-transit heist In one of his updates in April, he wrote: “Take advantage of the chess board. This my everyday game, playing it alone in my mind. Everything in life can be taken away from you and generally will be at some point.” The man is no stranger to controversy. In February last year, the Sunday Times article linked him to a controversial farm deal in Limpopo. The publication reported that the then Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Gugile Nkwinti introduced Present to one of his top officials at a land summit. At the time, the Luthuli House comrade was reportedly looking for a thriving Limpopo farm. Just months after the meeting, Bekendvlei Farm was bought for R97-million and handed over to Present and his partner, businessman Moses Boshomane, to manage. The newspaper alleged that a senior official had bypassed required procedures and prioritised the deal. According to media reports, Nkwinti who is currently serving as the Minister of Water and Sanitation, was the speaker at Present’s lavish wedding, a day after the farm deal went through. News24 reports that well-placed police sources indicated that Present was the first to be arrested, after hijacked vehicles used in the heist were spotted at his uncle’s home in Dobsonville. READ MORE: Joburg Mayor says cash-in-transit robbery suspect works for ANC The site says the four suspects arrested so far are among 15 involved. Police Minister Bheki Cele announced on Thursday morning that Present had been linked to at least three cash-in-transit heists. “This is almost his third cash heist, this guy. It is not the first one. Two are in the North West, plus this one (Soweto). Indeed, we have established who he is. He works for the organising department on a temporary basis at Luthuli House,” Cele said.