South Africa remains the most unequal country in the world, according to a new report by the South African Human Rights Commission The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) has released its 2017/2018 report in which it indicates that South Africa remains the most unequal country with 64% of black South Africans, 41% of coloured people, 6% of Indian people and only 1% of white people living in poverty. Based on tools at the government’s disposal to address economic inequality through radical economic transformation, it indicates that although income inequality has marginally decreased by 0,01% in the past four years, the gap wealth inequality continues to widen. Chapter 9 institution report reveals that 10% of South Africa’s population owns 90% of the country’s wealth, while the wealthiest 10% earns seven times more than the bottom 40%. READ MORE: World’s richest 1% claimed 82% of wealth created in 2017 – Oxfam It says that poverty in South Africa has increased in recent years, whereas income and wealth inequality remain among the highest in the world. SAHRC recommends that accelerated transformation through the implementation of rights-based policies is urgently needed. It also found that the Vat increase implemented earlier this year seriously threatens the human rights of the poor and is not constitutionally justifiable. The report has sought to evaluate the ability of certain rights-based legislation, policies and practices to catalyse a process of radical socio-economic transformation in order to achieve substantive economic equality. “It was demonstrated that current poverty and inequality trends manifest to severely prejudice vulnerable people and groups based on their race, geographic location, gender and disability status,” the report said. Equality report further found that affirmative action in the employment equity context fails to target the most vulnerable people, due to the fact that socio-economic factors are not taken into account in implementing special measures. “Special measures in the B-BBEE sphere, including in the context of preferential procurement, small business development, further education and land contexts, suﬀer from the same deﬁciencies. As a result, there are indications that new imbalances and patterns of economic exclusion are arising.” READ MORE: Global wealth inequality is on the rise It recommended the contribution of the private sector if radical socio-economic transformation and the substantive economic equality were to be achieved. “Government should thus act swiftly to bring the promotional aspects of PEPUDA into operation, in order to ensure that all members of society support South Africa’s project of rights-based radical socio-economic transformation.”  