The black-owned Best Cut Meats in KwaZulu-Natal had to halt operations due to the outbreak of listeria The company’s CEO, Nkululeko Luthuli, shares how the outbreak has negatively impacted the industry. Best Cut Meats, based in Empangeni, KwaZulu-Natal, employs about 153 people and supplies most of the major retailers and wholesalers in the province with processed meats. “Currently, the entire processed meat industry is experiencing a massive reduction in volumes sold. Polony and viennas sales have gone down by 70% and those of other processed meats have gone down 50%,” he says. He said since the listeriosis outbreak, as an industry body, they had shifted their efforts to engage and drive collaboration with various priority stakeholders, including government, industry bodies and the public. READ MORE: Tiger Brands braces for class-action lawsuit Luthuli recalls that the announcement of the outbreak came as a big surprise and delivered with an additional warning to people to stop eating polony, it placed an immediate sales constraint for them as a manufacturer. He says he could only imagine much the same situation with regard to other emerging producers and small businesses. “Some factories have suspended operations, others are only manufacturing for two or three days a week. “What is important to understand is that there are a number of small and medium-sized manufacturers in the industry. This category of manufacturers is far more financially sensitive to production disruptions than the handful of large manufacturers,” he says. He believes the way forward is for health authorities and government to come out very clearly on what measures they want the industry to adopt in terms of food safety. “It is also important for the authorities to change the perceived notion that processed meats are the source of listeria. In the absence of this, the recovery of the industry will be far more protracted and demand will continue to be subdued. “We have actively recommended that the government to legislate the implementation of hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP) at all meat processors, the government has since accepted the proposal and are taking steps to legislate the implementation of HACCP at all meat plants within a period of nine months,” he says. Luthuli says they are working with government and have tabled recommendations on legislation based on global best practice and taking South Africa’s unique landscape into consideration. Although Luthuli couldn’t disclose the company’s plans to rebuild the business, he says before the outbreak, like many new businesses, it was experiencing operational, financial and market access issues. “The SA economy has been sluggish for some time, which didn’t help. However, we were overcoming many of these obstacles, cognisant also that some of these issues are ‘chronic’ to all businesses,” he says. READ MORE: Listeriosis scare: 3 500 tons of polony and cold meat returned so far He says the firm adheres to Global Food Safety Initiative standards, which requires  that manufacturers have a food health safety system in place, as well as dedicated personnel to implement and monitor the system. “The industry and authorities are introducing new measures to better safety standards – we will adhere to these standards as well,” says Luthuli.   