The EFF has promised to turn Vodacom stores upside down if the firm drags its feet any longer in compensating "Please Call Me" inventor Nkosana Makate “What we did to H&M, we can also do it here at Vodacom.” This was the warning shot sounded by the EFF’s Fanie Sibeko, who led a group of protestors to Vodacom’s headquarters in Midrand on Wednesday, Jacaranda reports. He accused the network giant of stalling for no other reason than the fact that he is black. “This is a deliberate delay because Nkosana is nothing else but an African. It has been very long that this matter has been dragging. Constitutional Court took a decision in 2016, and even today we are told the matter will be resolved speedily, and that is unacceptable,” he told party supporters, as well as Please Call Me-movement supporters, gathered at Vodaworld. Earlier this month, Makate was gagged from disclosing settlement negotiation details, after he revealed that negotiations had stalled after Vodacom offered him R10 million to settle. READ MORE: ‘Please Call Me’ inventor barred from media contact It’s unclear how Vodacom came up with the figure, given that an auditing firm appointed by the network operator that combed through the company’s financials allegedly wasn’t able to quantify the profit margins the invention generated for the company. Before the order was issued he lodged a complaint with the Independent Regulatory Board of Auditing (IRBA) to get to the bottom of the mystery. Makate wants Vodacom to pay him 15% of the revenue the company gained from his creation, which his lawyers, using calculations based on actuarial estimations, puts the figure at around R70 billion. Documents submitted as part of Makate’s complaint laid with the IRBA, show that Vodacom argued it had reached the R10 million compensatory figure, based on a model using the company’s former CEO Alan Knott-Craig’s R3,5 million salary earned in 2001. “Adding the time value of money from 2001-2016, this yielded R7,7 million,” Vodacom said in documents for the arbitration process. “In all the circumstances, we respectfully submit that the appropriate determination to be made is one that obliges Vodacom to pay to Mr Makate the sum of R10 million as constituting reasonable compensation.” READ MORE: Auditing watchdog launches probe into Vodacom’s ‘Please Call Me’ revenue mystery The two parties have been locked in settlement negotiations for over two years. “We are sending a message to Vodacom that we have the power, that we can collapse the equity of Vodacom, it’s very easy,” Sibeko told the crowd. He threatened to launch a national campaign to get consumers to ditch the network giant in favour of state owned entity Telkom Mobile. “We want you to carry this clear message to the executive, what we did to H&M, we can also do it here at Vodacom, you must address this African child the way you should address him, you must give him what is due to him,” he said.