Tshimologong Digital Innovation precinct has launched a digital content hub in partnership with Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and the French Institute of South Africa (IFAS) An incubation hub of innovative and creative audio-visual content has been launched in the Tshimologong Digital Innovation precinct in Joburg, with support from the French agencies, AFD and IFAS. A three-year €950, 000 or  R14,992,000 grant from AFD will enable Tshimologong to expand its activities to incorporate audio-visual content creation such as animation, virtual reality, augmented reality, mixed reality, holograms, 360° video, web content, video games, applications, web series and music. Established in 2016 in the vibrant inner-city district of Braamfontein, the Digital Innovation Precinct incubates digital entrepreneurs and grows the skills pipeline for the digital economy through collaboration with academia, corporates, government and entrepreneurs. READ MORE: SA executive Lesley Williams to join the Obama Africa leadership programme Precinct CEO, Lesley Williams says that this level of funding and commitment to South Africa is important. “We need this kind of partnership for much-needed skills development in the country. This partnership will further create market access between French companies and South African start-ups, driving investment opportunities for digital content businesses. It is a win-win for all involved and Tshimologong is excited to work with both the AFD and IFAS.” This is the first investment by AFD in the area of digital innovation in southern Africa and reflects the organisation’s new focus on financing cultural, creative and tech industries as key players in local economic development. “The cultural and creative industries are capitalising on the tremendous momentum of digital innovation and entrepreneurship in Africa. From fashion to visual arts, from film to music – culture creates jobs, stimulates the economy, and enables inclusive and sustainable growth while helping to better address issues of education, citizenship and the environment,” says Williams. By financing the Digital Content Hub, AFD says it’s proud to be associated with Tshimologong Digital Innovation Precinct, and in doing so, it puts innovation and creative industries in the heart of its mission in South Africa”, said Martha Stein-Sochas, AFD Southern Africa Regional Director. The idea of establishing a Digital Content Hub was born from an existing collaboration between Tshimologong and Digital Lab Africa, an initiative launched by IFAS in 2016 to support African start-ups creating multimedia content to realise their projects with the support of French and African leading companies (studios, producers, broadcasters, distributors, experts). “The Digital Content Hub ensures the longevity of the Digital Lab Africa and its capacity to develop in Tshimologong, the prestigious South African innovation cluster. The positioning of a Franco-South African partnership in the heart of Johannesburg is an asset for the development of ICT in Africa while fostering opportunities to collaborate between our two markets and enhancing French expertise,” says Ambassador of France to South Africa, Christophe Farnaud. READ MORE: Local scientist-and-engineer duo pioneers new technology to fight TB The new content incubator project will include: By 2021, Tshimologong is expected to have fully incorporated digital content development into its activities in a self-sustainable manner.