Robert Marawa and Andile Ncube reportedly want R5 million and R2 million respectively from the SABC, after the public broadcaster effectively cancelled their lucrative contracts On Sunday, a number of news reports made the rounds on social media alleging that Wits student, entrepreneur and Director of Glam Troupe, Mohale Motaung (24), had cheated on fiancé and celebrated choreographer, presenter and Idols SA judge Somizi Mhlongo (45). According to Celeb Gossip, while at Mohale’s birthday dinner, held in Fourways, Johannesburg, the birthday boy was seen “cosied up” with a young man by the name of Vuyo Pan. While Somizi apparently did not attend the event due to an alleged disagreement with his partners, his friends were there and witnessed the two up close. The article quoted a source: “He wasn’t there. But when Somizi’s friends noticed that Mohale was sitting next to Vuyo and was very cosy, they started calling Somizi, informing him that there was someone busy with his fiancé. They even asked him to come over, but he refused.” READ MORE: Somizi, Dineo Ranaka and Mpho Popps to host Samas A subsequent text message reportedly sent by Somizi to Vuyo read: “If ever I find you at any point seen with my fiancé, I will find you and f**k you up. I know where you study and stay. And I pray I never bump into you while I’m still fuming. You even had the nerve to come to the dinner, ass.” The Sunday Sun reported that Mohale had been in contact with Vuyo for three months, having contacted him via Instagram in the hope of doing business together, and even subsequently offered him a job. The article quoted a source: “Mohale asked for Vuyo’s contacts and told him through an Instagram message that he wanted them to start a business together. Vuyo fell for it and I warned him to stay away from Somizi’s fiancé. Trouble was written all over it.” READ MORE: Somizi unveiled as Black Opal ambassador According to the paper, Pam confirmed he had been invited to the birthday shindig. “Mohale invited me to dinner and my fiancé of three years dropped me off there. I was shocked to find out Somizi wasn’t there,” he said. “After the dinner with his other friends, I started getting threatening messages from Somizi. That’s when I stopped communicating with Mohale, as I failed to understand why I was being targeted, when his fiancé was the one who came to me with a job offer and invited me to the dinner.” Mahale declined to comment to the newspaper, while Somizi was not available for comment.   