There are certain workplace habits that make you seem unprofessional to your colleagues and your boss More often than not, we develop bad workplace habits. And while you may not realise it, your boss or your colleagues might have formed a less-than-perfect impression of your work ethic and professionalism. HR specialist Hope Lukoto brings your attention to some of the workplace habits you need to be aware of. Constantly on your cellphone
With the unceasing activity on our social media profiles, it’s likely that many of us (more than most would admit) spend a lot of time looking at our cellphone screens. “This makes you look unprofessional and gives the impression that you are not getting any work done,” Lukoto says. READ MORE: How to respond if someone says your natural hair is unprofessional Your energy
Lukoto explains that your energy levels at work, whether you’re a hard worker or not, has a huge impact on how your colleagues and boss perceive your work ethic. “Walking slowly, talking slowly and the sort give the impression of laziness,” Lukoto says. “Low energy makes people wonder whether you’re getting any work done.” Long lunch breaks
Lukoto explains that you need to be conscious of your daily work breaks, saying that consistent long work breaks create the impression that you’re not doing enough work. Tardiness
“Being late is a very big one,” she says. “It almost always sets off alarm bells. So even before your manager asks the ‘Can they do the job?’ question, they may be asking the ‘Should they be working here?’ question.” Chewing gum in a meeting
Lukoto says that while chewing gum at your desk might not necessarily give off a bad impression, continuing to chew gum when you get into a meeting is problematic. “It makes one seem distracted in a meeting, and will make people wonder whether you’re listening. It gives the impression that you’re not present,” she explains. READ MORE: Seven ways you kill your reputation as a leader Email language
How you write an email is a very important part of what forms a professional image. Lukoto says that however innocent or quick your email may be, it’s important to always write it out in full words and full sentences. “You never know where your email might go and who’s going to read it, because tomorrow one might have to forward it here, then forward it there, and the other people that have access to the email trail might start to question your professionalism.” Be at your desk
“It depends on the type of boss you have, but a lot of managers want to see you at your desk, because if you’re not, they assume work isn’t being done,” Lukoto says.