Stylist Kwanele Khonjwayo shares five simple tips to help you become a more savvy shopper Make a list Khonjwayo says that knowing which look and feel you’re going for will save you time and money. “Creating a list, whether it’s a mental or physical one will really help,” she says. “Knowing what you want beforehand, be it a whole outfit, just shoes or an accessory makes the process quick and easy.” “All stores are divided into categories such as casual, corporate and sports wear, for example, so you can go directly to the appropriate section and be out of there in a few minutes,” she says. If you know what you’re looking for, you can walk in and get what you need without frustration or wasting time. Dress comfortably “Wear an outfit you can slip in and out of – ideally a dress,” she says. And this advice goes for footwear too. “The worst thing when shopping is wearing something that requires you to keep undoing and redoing complicated ties and buckles. By the time you’re undressed, you’re exhausted,” she says. Look for end-of-season sales This is when stores are getting rid of old stock and you’re guaranteed some great bargains. Kwanele recommends subscribing to your favourite stores’ mailing lists so you never miss a bargain. READ MORE: Five investment style items every woman should own She adds that this also means you’ll be among the first to know when new stock is arriving and perhaps even receive invitations to Preview events and collection launches. TIP: Don’t be afraid to spend a little extra on an investment piece as it should last a long time. Know where to find everything in one place For example, if you’re going for a fashion-forward, glam look, you’re likely to find your whole outfit at Zara. “Go to a retail store that has everything and will give you the look you’re aiming for,” she advises. If time is short, Kwanele recommends asking store assistants for help as they know where everything is and what they have in stock. “Don’t be afraid to ask, instead of wasting time walking around the whole store, frantically looking for an item they may not even have,” she says. READ MORE: The benefit of investing in two piece sets Shop when you’re in a good mood “Shopping is meant to be fun and if you’re not feeling good, chances are you won’t find anything you like,” she says.