Robert Marawa and Andile Ncube reportedly want R5 million and R2 million respectively from the SABC, after the public broadcaster effectively cancelled their lucrative contracts Marawa isn’t taking the loss of a massively profitable payday from the SABC lying down. According to a Sunday World report, the veteran sports anchor has reportedly served the SABC with a letter of demand, as he seeks the original R5 million payment agreed upon before acting SABC CEO Nomsa Philiso pulled the plug. Marawa’s return to the public broadcaster saw him negotiate a contract to do a two-hour show simulcast on Metro FM and Radio 2000 – netting him a whopping R7 000 per show. READ MORE: SABC always planned to see me on the streets – Marawa He would have earned a cool R154 000 per month on a three-year contract. That contract has now been rescinded, after an investigation instituted by Philiso found that the agreement entered into with Marawa was signed without following due process. The parties have been instructed to go back to the negotiating table. For his part in the appointment, SABC COO Chris Maroleng has landed in hot water and is set to face a disciplinary hearing over the irregular appointment. SABC spokesman Kaizer Kganyago told the newspaper that the broadcaster was “not aware” of Marawa’s lawyers letter and his fight for his money. The SABC is reportedly facing further legal woes, with former Radio 2000 sports presenter Andile Ncube also issuing the public broadcaster with an ultimatum – pay him R2 million or give him back his job. READ MORE: Robert Marawa confirms break-up with Pearl Thusi Ncube – whom the SABC removed, along with Thomas Mlambo, to accommodate Marawa’s appointment – believes he is entitled to the payout, because he turned down an offer from rival broadcaster Power FM, after the SABC enticed him with an offer of R7 500 per show and a total remuneration of R1,9 million for the contract, which was signed in February and due to be terminated at the end of March next year. “The SABC can confirm that we are in possession of the letter of demand from Mr Andile Ncube’s attorneys. Unfortunately, the details of the said letter of demand are confidential and the SABC is not able to comment further at this point,” Kganyago was quoted telling the newspaper.