Is your retirement investment on course to you retiring in comfort? Here's how to keep abreast so you're in the know The adage “knowledge is power” seems to have lost its weight with some retirement fund members, with many having become somewhat disengaged from keeping track of their savings and understanding their retirement funding journey. With people generally living longer these days and research indicating that only about a quarter of South Africans will be able to sustain their current lifestyle in retirement, it’s now more important than ever to keep abreast with how your retirement investment is appreciating. “The increase in longevity is perhaps the biggest threat to active retirement fund members,” says Viresh Maharaj, chief marketing actuary at Sanlam Employee Benefits. READ MORE: How to use your retirement fund to boost savings “Stipulating 65 years as the retirement age and decreeing 12 times annual salary as the ‘right’ amount of capital cannot remain relevant in a world where savers will live into their 90s.” For this reason, he says, fund members are entitled to ask their bosses or HR managers certain questions that will help them acquire key knowledge. These questions include: Once you are more aware of where you stand, you will be able to make adjustments that may be required to help you reach your retirement goals. READ MORE: Get retirement ready These changes could include rebalancing your investment portfolio to ensure that your savings remain on track. The Navy Federal Credit Union offers this advice: “As you add different savings channels to your retirement plan, compare your current mix of certificates, stocks, bonds and cash to your target asset allocation (the proportions aim to balance risk and reward based on the investor’s goals, risk tolerance and investment horizon). If your goals, timeline or risk tolerance have changed, you may need to rebalance your retirement allocation by changing the mix of your investment. “Also consider tax liability, as changes in tax laws could affect your retirement income. Look at a mix of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-free investments to provide more flexibility when you start taking distributions.”