ANC MP Mduduzi Manana has resigned 24 hours after the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) declined to prosecute him for abuse Mduduzi said he bowed to growing pressure calling for his resignation because he feels the time is right as his name has once and for all been cleared. The NPA on Monday announced its decision not to pursue criminal charges laid against him by his domestic worker Christine Wiro –  citing insufficient evidence. She claims Manana threw her down a flight of stairs. His resignation also comes in the face of an embarrassing incident at the ruling party’s Gauteng conference held from Friday last week where he was booed by delegates attending the conference. “Though there have been mounting pressure for me to step down as a Member of Parliament, I felt that this would have been a premature step as the matter was still being investigated by law enforcement agencies and it would have most likely amounted to admission of guilt,” he said in a statement released on the Mduduzi Manana Foundation’s Facebook page. READ MORE: Mduduzi Manana has resigned as an MP “Now that the NPA has independently decided that I have no case to answer based on the police investigation, I have decided to voluntarily withdraw my membership from the National Assembly after almost 10 years of active participation in parliamentary politics.” Manana plans on donating a portion of his pension to several causes, the first being R1 million awarded to men’s social movement against gender based violence Khuluma Ndoda led by veteran actor Patrick Shai under the Thuma Mina Men Against GBV Fund. He is also donating half a million rand to the Nceduluntu Youth Foundation’s One Million Pads campaign which will provide sanitary packs to school girls over the next three years. He will also make available a scholarship for five male postgraduate students to pursue a programme in gender studies. It’s currently unclear whether Manana’s resignation will render the Parliamentary probe the ethics committee was due to institute moot. He had been scheduled to appear before Parliament’s ethics sub committee to answer to involvement in an assault incident that took place at Cubana in Fourways in August last year. READ MORE: Mduduzi Manana off the hook as NPA declines to prosecute The assault was caught on video and in a plea explanation, Manana said he was asked by one of the women, Noluthando Mahlaba, who joined their table: “Who do you think you are? You isitabane (gay).” Isitabane is a derogative term used to refer to gay people. He said he then deliberately assaulted Mahlaba after this remark with an open hand on her face and back before pulling her hair and pulling her down to the ground where he proceeded to kick and punch her.
He said a fight then broke out in which he also intentionally assaulted two other women – Monoisa Duma and Thina Mopipa. Manana was convicted of three counts of assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm after pleading guilty to the charges. He was ordered to pay a R100 000 fine or face 12 months in prison and compensate his victims to the tune of R26 680,46. He also had to complete 500 hours of community service and a rehabilitation programme.