It remains to be seen whether record label boss Arthur Mafokate will follow through on plans to attend the government's 100 Men March today Mafokate came under strong criticism after it was revealed he wanted to take part in the march, given the fact that he is currently entangled in a court case where he is accused of assaulting his ex-girlfriend Busisiwe Twala, aka Cici. While Mafokate won’t be turned away if he turns up, the Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) has distanced itself from the kwaito star, saying a personal invitation was never issued to Mafokate nor was he ever appointed as an official march ambassador. “Government recognises that Mr Mafokate is facing serious charges of gender based violence and supports that the due legal processes unfold accordingly,” the GCIS said in a statement. “The charges faced by Mr Mafokate and his alleged conduct are in direct conflict of the ethos of #100MenMarch and rallying call by Government and its partners to create awareness on violence against women and children.” READ MORE: Arthur had no intention of stopping the car – Cici tells court The 100 Men March that is expected to make its way through Pretoria on Tuesday morning aims to highlight the impact of violence against women and children and call for an end to the violence. Acting GCIS director general Phumla Williams said “men of action” from all over the nation were gearing up to be part of the march. She said supporters of the march include, among others, judges and lawyers, clergy from all faith movements, police cadets, nurses and other civil servants, members of the National Taxi Alliance and bikers. “The 100 Men March seeks to highlight the negative impact of violence against women and children on South African society,” she said. “We encourage South Africans to join this movement for positive change, by standing together we can work toward a safer environment for women and children.” The march is expected to start at 10:00 in Church Square and end around 13:00 at the Southern Lawns of the Union Buildings. READ MORE: Gender-based violence costs economy R28,4 billion “Marshals in clearly marked regalia will assist in ensuring the smooth movement of participants through the city. Metro police from the City of Tshwane will close certain roads at certain times to ensure that the marchers move speedily through the city,” she said. Writing in the City Press this week, Williams said the goal of the march was to urgently put an end to violence against women and children and “follow in the footsteps of both former president Nelson Mandela and struggle activist Mama Albertina Sisulu”. “That one in three women in the poorest households experience physical violence is an indictment on us as a nation. For 50 000 women to have reported sexual offences in 2016/17 is just the tip of the iceberg because most did not live to tell the story,” she wrote. – With additional reporting by News24Wire