A Kulula passenger, who was kicked off a flight for referring to black passengers and the pilot using the K-word, is now claiming she had no idea how offensive the word was Alochna Moodley blames her ignorance on her school’s failure to teach learners about the atrocities committed against people of colour during the apartheid era. While apartheid is part of the basic school curriculum, Moodley said she was taught  only in passing about apartheid and as a result, she hasn’t adequately been armed with knowledge on the oppression suffered by millions of black South Africans. “My school curriculum did not teach me of the atrocities of apartheid. Any mention of it was in passing without the details of the oppression, especially of black people in this country,” she was quoted saying in a TimesLive report. That’s why she felt nothing, at the time, about using the word in a text to a friend while on a flight from Johannesburg to Durban two weeks ago. READ MORE: Woman thrown off Kulula flight for using K-word is fired The text, which made reference to her annoyance at being seated next to two black people (whom she referred to by the K-word), was seen by Reverend Solumuzi Mabuza, who was seated next to her, and the man who reported the incident to flight attendants. Moodley was promptly escorted off the flight. Since the incident, which went viral and subsequently cost her her job at SMC Pneumatics, the 26-year-old has left Joburg to move back in with her parents in Durban. She says she’s had time to do a little introspection and get a better grip on the country’s history – particularly as far as racial atrocities are concerned. “During this time of introspection, I have made enquiries as to why this word is so offensive. I am appalled,” she said. Speaking after a mediation meeting held between Moodley, Mabuza and renowned human rights and anti-apartheid activist Bishop Rubin Phillip on Tuesday, Moodley apologised for her ignorant rant. READ MORE: Woman thrown off plane for calling pilot the K-word She had previously blamed her utterances on frustration over the flight’s delay. “I was frustrated at the time, because it was so late in the evening and the plane wasn’t starting,” she said in an interview with SowetanLive last month. “It was a mistake on my side, I am not going to deny that I said those things. Yes, it’s wrong for me to make those remarks, but it was my SMS, so why was he looking at my phone? He invaded my privacy and I feel like this thing was blown out of proportion.” While Mabuza has accepted her apology, he says he won’t be withdrawing the case of crimen injuria he laid against Moodley at the Kempton Park police station because he believes court processes are the only way racism will be rooted out in the country. “If you don’t go to a court of law where legal minds get to go through the case, then you are not solving the problem,” he said.