Following his victory on the ANC "war room" lawsuit, Shaka Sisulu has launched a fund for people at the receiving end of defamatory claims The TV personality and entrepreneur has won a defamation lawsuit against a woman who accused him of accepting millions of rands to lead an ANC “war room”. He sued for defamation in response to the woman suing the ANC for R2,2 million, which she claimed was owed to her for her participation in the party’s election campaign. Last year January, PR firm owner Sihle Bolani claimed Sisulu set up a covert ANC war room in the lead-up to the 2016 local elections and contracted her firm to help out. The war room campaign allegedly used R50 million to create fake Twitter profiles and a TV programme to launch smear campaigns against opposition parties. It was reported at the time that the campaign fell through. READ MORE: Shaka Sisulu refutes smear campaign allegations Sisulu won a defamation case against Bolani and her company and was awarded R3 million. The grandson of Walter Sisulu is using the lawsuit money to launch a fund for people on the receiving end of defamatory claims. “After receiving a favourable default judgment to the value of R3 million in my defamation case against Sihle Bolani and Sihle Bolani Communications in relation to the ‘war room saga’, I’m putting the awarded proceeds into a fund aimed at supporting anyone in need of support in repairing their reputation,” he said. #TheDefamationFundZA will take on one case per month of someone who has been defamed on social media. He said the awarded R3 million defamation pay-out will be used to fund both the legal fees and the costs of any required investigations. READ MORE: ANC election campaign work was above board – Ogilvy “This fund is being underwritten by myself in the event that not all proceeds are collected. The fund is here to stay and fight for you,” he wrote. He invited people whose reputation has been dealt a blow and who needed assistance with lodging a defamation case against people who had rubbished their name or ‘trolled you online with lies and damaging allegations”, to apply and could have expert legal and investigative assistance to repair their name.    