American R&B singer R Kelly has responded to his critics with the 19-minute song I Admit, amid allegations of sexual misconduct The singer, songwriter and record producer, whose real name is Robert Sylvester Kelly, released the song on Monday. It addresses years of unflattering headlines about his private life. Kelly’s career has been in jeopardy in recent months amid allegations of sexual misconduct. In the song, the singer acknowledges that he has made mistakes, but has tried to help others in the industry who have turned against him. The I Believe I Can Fly singer also reveals that he was sexually abused as a child and addresses the sexual abuse allegations against him, #MuteRKelly movement and the Spotify decision to drop his music. READ MORE: Spotify drops R Kelly as abuse allegations persist “I admit I f##k with all the ladies, that’s both older and young ladies. But tell me how they call it ‘paedophile’, because that shit is crazy. You may have your opinions, entitled to your opinions, but really am I supposed to go to jail or lose my career because of your opinion,” he sings. The 51-year-old American singer has a long history of accusations of indecency with young women, dated back to 1994, when he was 27 and reportedly married 15-year-old singer Aaliyah. In 2002, he faced child pornography charges for allegedly videotaping himself having sex with an unidentified underage girl. The case went to trial in 2008 and he was acquitted. “I been f**ked by so many damn managers, while they push me out front of these cameras. All this music I done gave to them, and now they play me like a f**kin’ amateur. I got a life, yeah, I got a right,” he sings He claims to have “represented” women. “Cancel my shows, that sh*t ain’t right, How they gon’ say I don’t respect these women, when all I’ve done is represent (thirty years). Take my career and turn it upside down, ’cause you mad I’ve got some girlfriends.” “Hell with this record deal, it ain’t worth this sh*t for real. Ain’t seen my kids in years, they tryna lock me up like Bill. How much can a nigga take? How much can a nigga pray? Just wanna do my music, stop stressin’ me. Please just let me age gracefully.” Although the star has denied any wrongdoing, recent movements such as #MeToo, #MuteRKelly and #TimesUp have targeted him for alleged transgressions. READ MORE: R Kelly sued by woman he allegedly infected with STD The star also admits to dropping out of school, telling lies, drinking and smoking too much, not being able to read because of dyslexia and not owning his own music. In addition, the singer lashes out at a few of his critics: Steve Harvey, John Legend and Tom Joyner. “I admit it, I love Steve Harvey, John Legend, and Tom Joyner. They’re doing good in their lives right now, why would they wanna tear down another brother. Women show black men some love. ‘Cause black men, we go through enough.” “How can we get up off the ground, when we steady tearin’ each other down. I admit that the devil is busy. Had some people beside me ain’t with me. I admit that I’m gon’ do this music up until the Lord come and get me.” Listen to the song below:   