If you have ambitions of studying towards an MBA but would rather go the distance-learning route, you will still have to fork out a lot of money to register at the best business schools in the world QS World University Rankings recently released the top online MBA programmes in the world, which included how much each university will charge for this coveted degree. Leading the pack as the institution with the best distance-learning MBA programme is IE Business School in Madrid, Spain. Tuition at this elite school will set students back R812 000. The next best choice is Indiana University (Kelly Direct Programs) in the USA and the tuition for this specific school runs in the R900 000 region. The top 10 schools include Oxford Business School, George Washington University, Imperial College Business School and Euro MBA Consortium, which offers the programme for R493 000. According to an interview Dr Paolo Taticchi – Director of Global Online MBA at Imperial – did with BusinessTech, online MBAs were the present and no longer a thing of the future. READ MORE: How to deal with rejection during your job hunt “Globalised teamwork, leading in a virtual environment and exposure to disruptive technology are just some of the skills demanded by top companies around the world. MBAs such as ours draw on the latest technology available to offer these in unprecedented quality.” The top 50 list is dominated by schools in the UK and USA, but MBA programmes from universities in Australia, Netherlands, Italy, Peru, Switzerland, New Zealand and India also made the list. No African countries made the list. The criteria used to determine the list was determined by the institution’s employability marker for its students, the quality of students enrolled, how established the institution is in the online MBA market, faculty and teaching, class experience and diversity. According to CNN.com, having an MBA could get you hired in a tough economy and get you where you want to go in your career faster, and some companies expect candidates to have an MBA for certain positions. READ MORE: Visually-impaired woman matriculates at 51 Top 10 list: * IE Business School – Spain – R812 000 * Indiana University (Kelley Direct Programs) – US – R928 000 * Imperial College Business School – UK – R643 000 * Warwick Business School – UK – R564 000 * University of Florida (Warrington) – US – R812 000 * Alliance Manchester Business School – UK – R775 000 * Oxford Brookes University – UK – R279 000 * AGSM@UNSW – Australia – R571 000 * EuroMBA Consortium – Netherlands – R493 000