Teaching children the value of money isn't easy, but the sooner you start the sooner you'll thank yourself. Here's what the experts advise “Mommy (or Daddy) doesn’t have the money for that,” or “Money doesn’t grow on trees, you know.” Do these words sound familiar? Perhaps you’ve hissed them at your screaming toddler who is crying for a new toy while you’re shopping, or to your teenager who has lost their cellphone for the umpteenth time! If this is you, then maybe it’s time to teach your children about the value of money, especially in the tough economic times we live in. Gregg Sneddon, financial planner and owner of The Financial Coach says that while teaching kids about money needs to be done in an age-appropriate way, any child, from a toddler to a teenager, can be taught the value of money. Parents often avoid talking to their children about money, perhaps in an unconscious continuation of a vicious cycle, because their own parents never discussed financial issues with them. READ MORE: Take action to raise money-savvy children “Have conversations with your children – and be real. If you can’t afford something, tell them. And if you need to cut down, explain the reason,” he says. First National Bank’s head of Consumer Education, Eunice Sibiya, agrees. She says that if parents are cash-strapped they have to be realistic with themselves and their kids when it comes to cutting costs. “Explain the state of your finances to your kids, and what adjustments need to be made. “Draw up a list of items you are going to buy and explain which ones you won’t be buying because you’re trying to save as much as possible.” She recommends letting the children help shop for the items on the list so they can see for themselves where the money goes. Sibiya advises parents to grab every opportunity to teach their children the importance of responsible money management. This process should begin when your children are toddlers. You can show them which foods are essential or “good”, by adding them to your shopping basket first. The luxury or “bad” foods, such as chocolates or crisps, can be excluded or bought only when there’s enough money. Sneddon says children should be taught the value of their possessions. For example, if your child loses a toy, don’t simply replace it immediately. Rather let your child save up their pocket money to pay for a replacement. READ MORE: Teaching your daughter financial independence in the time of the ‘blesser’ He says that in the case of teenagers, look for creative ways to get them to save their money. Sibiya she recommends keeping half of your young child’s pocket money. “Most kids take a lunch box to school, but they’re likely to spend all their money on snacks like chips, juices and sweets instead of saving it.” She advises parents to save the pocket money they retain, to show children that money has the potential to grow. This may include opening a bank account for your child and regularly updating them on how much is in the account. Sneddon, on the other hand, does not recommend opening a bank account for your child because bank charges are so high. He advises parents to open a unit trust account for their children, so as to save money for the long term. “Tell your child that you’ll match anything they save. It teaches them delayed gratification,” he says. It’s important for a child to have a goal in mind when saving. If a child has put their own money towards buying a gadget, or paying for a portion of a trip, they will have a greater appreciation of the value of money and what they have.