Eight hours' sleep? What’s that? Modern lifestyles leave women with very little time to get enough sleep. Don't worry – we’ve got some great tips and tricks to fake looking rested Do you sometimes wonder if you’re the only one functioning on five hours’ sleep? Between juggling fitness regimes, school runs, traffic, business and running households, it’s no wonder that precious sleep eludes us more and more with each year that passes. Fatigue wreaks havoc with physiological systems and unfortunately, one of the first places it shows up is in your skin’s texture, appearance and overall health. Here are eight ways to “fake it till you make it” and arrive at work on a few hours sleep looking your best. 1. Hydro cure “Water is Mother Nature’s milk” for a reason – hydration is key to beautiful, healthy, glowing skin. While making sure your hydration levels are up throughout the day, its equally important to use products aimed at either adding or sustaining skin hydration – especially with the upcoming dry winter months. Try: Nimue’s Hydration Booster Pack, R899, suited to most skin types, especially those exposed to seasonal changes for additional hydration. This pack contains a Super Hydrating Serum, a Super Hydrating Mask and a Exfoliating Enzyme that refines skin removing dead skin cells promoting cell renewal. 2. Boost your glow Getting your skin to glow has never been easier with all the new products on the market. Our skin does most of its work during the night, so using products aimed at this period will help you fake that well-rested look by morning. Try: Kiehl’s Dermatologist Solutions Nightly Refining Micro-Peel 30ml, R750 3. Plump up tired eyes We have all been there, ladies – sneaking into the office with big shades to mask dark, puffy circles under our eyes and being asked whether you are hungover. Dark circles make eyes look smaller, so slap those creams on! They may not be a long-term fix, but they will definitely be a godsend when you just want to get through the day looking “bright-eyed and bushy tailed”. Try: Juliette Armand Skin Boosters Anti Surgery System, Eye Brightening Gel, R1 060 to reduce dark rings and swelling and refresh the eye contour. 4. Blush it up An age-old beauty trick to faking an “I just slept like a baby” look is good, old blusher. In winter, opt for warmer tones and don’t be shy! Slap it on to create a fresh “I just woke up like this” look. Try: Smashbox LA Light Blush Palettes in three new variants, R450