The cost of private schooling keeps increasing year-on-year, forcing parents to cut other expenses in order to keep their children at school FNB Private Wealth CEO Eric Enslin warns that you could underestimate the cost of private schooling at your peril. Should you prefer to send your children to private schools in the country, don’t underestimate the importance of planning ahead to cover school fees. “For an average household with two kids in school, annual tuition fees, including boarding could easily mount up to R540 000, considering that the most expensive private school in the country currently costs over R270 000 a year per pupil,” says Enslin. He says some families often overlook the fact that school fees could actually be a five to 13-year commitment, which can significantly place pressure on household cash flow if not properly planned for. READ MORE: Are low-cost private schools the future of education? The pressure could easily increase as the fees become more expensive every year as they often increase beyond the annual inflation rate. He advises families to think long-term and start making provision for private schooling as early as possible. “Even if the family does have some cash available, it would be viable to invest it and use the returns to lower the overall cost of private schooling,” says Enslin. Regardless of the age of children, there are a variety of investment vehicles which could suite families. Money maximiser account It enables you to have immediate access to your funds while earning a money market-related rate. You can also make additional deposits at any time. Inflation-linked deposits It offers you an investment where your returns are linked to inflation, ensuring your investment keeps up with the rising cost of living. Investment property You have an option to invest in property which is likely to appreciate in value while enabling you to use rental income to fund tuition fees on a monthly basis. Equities Investing in the stock market or investment funds that offer consistent growth over the long-term is also an option for parents. FNB Horizon Series This investment vehicle has been designed to make it exceptionally simple for customers to choose unit trust funds that best suit their needs. It takes the complexity out of investing and offers investors superior fund solutions, with exposure to inflation-beating returns over different time horizons READ MORE: Your child’s education could cost over a R1m a year in 2042 “There isn’t a one-size-fits-all approach when deciding on the best vehicle to save for private school fees as every family’s financial affairs differ. It is, therefore, essential to consult your bank’s relationship manager or advisor to identify the best investment plan, which takes into account a variety of factors impacting the family,” concludes Enslin.