A first-time mum is never short of advice. Knowing what to take to heart and what to ignore is essential According to Casey Rousseau, Marketing Manager of 1st for Women Insurance, “as women, we are part of an unspoken sisterhood and are always there to assist one another with help or advice and inspire confidence in each other. However, as women, we also have an innate ability to be always ready for whatever comes our way”. However, for those times when self-doubt creeps in, here is some advice for the new mummies on the block: Don’t break the bank First-time mums should avoid getting caught up in the belief that they need lots and lots of baby stuff to be an effective parent. Mums should rather focus on the basic essentials which can be used at appropriate time. Then look at buying the rest when the time is right, and you and baby actually need them. Don’t cripple yourself with debt or break the bank before the baby is even born. Every rand which could’ve been spent on “baby stuff” should rather go into a savings account. READ MORE: Real talk: The realities of motherhood Cherish these precious moments Take time to live in the moment and cherish every moment you have with your baby. As overwhelming as it may be to a new mum, take these moments to bond, get to know your baby and even begin to develop a rhythm with them. Having fun with your newborn baby is more important than following imaginary rules. Instincts trump advice The simple reason being, all mums and children are different, and while you can turn to books and magazines, friends, family, and even online communities, you should always trust your own instincts. There is no such thing as the perfect mum or a handbook with rules – we all learn by trial and error! Love your child, follow your instincts, do what you feel is right in your heart and you’ll be the best you can be for your child in your situation. READ MORE: How a new baby changes your relationship with your partner Always self-love If you do not take care of yourself, you will not be able to properly look after the baby. If you don’t enjoy doing things, if you aren’t as happy as you thought you would be with your new baby, if you don’t feel like talking to people, or you feel down for longer than two weeks, step outside your situation and realise what is happening. Get help before it gets worse. It’s nothing to be ashamed of, and more people suffer from postpartum depression (PPD) than you know. So pay attention to yourself, and if you think you might be struggling with PPD, get help, she says. READ MORE: Mother’s genes determine child’s intelligence “Self-doubt is a normal part of motherhood. New mums should keep in mind that they have a sisterhood behind them and that, ultimately, they’ve got this,” concludes Rousseau.