The KwaZulu-Natal man accused of murdering 21-year-old Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) student Zolile Khumalo and posting about it on Facebook, appeared upbeat and full of smiles at his first appearance in connection with her murder at the Durban Magistrate's Court on Thursday. The KwaZulu-Natal man accused of murdering 21-year-old Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) student Zolile Khumalo and posting about it on Facebook, appeared upbeat at his first appearance in connection with her murder at the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. During his brief court appearance, 23-year-old Thabani Mzolo, who is believed to be Khumalo’s boyfriend, was dressed in a red hoodie and blue jeans. He smiled as journalists snapped photographs of him. He has been charged with murder and the possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Mzolo is in custody and the case was postponed to May 10 for further investigation. READ MORE:  Calls grow for ‘harshest punishment’ for Zolile Khumalo’s alleged killer Hundreds of students, many from MUT, gathered outside the court and tried to force their way onto the premises to get a glimpse of Mzolo. The students marched from Point Road to the court, holding up placards and chanting slogans against women abuse. Many were dressed in ANC, IFP and EFF regalia. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said police were called to the university residence Lonsdale in South Beach, Durban in the early hours of Wednesday morning. “When police arrived, they found a 21-year-old with multiple gunshots,” said Zwane. READ MORE: Karabo Mokoena’s murderer has been found guilty The accused took to Facebook to apparently confess to the crime. In the Facebook post, he wrote in isiZulu: “Konke kwaphenduka umlando ukube benginamandla bengzomvusa silungise amaphutha ngomlomo …kodwa mnj kuphi laa ngba usehambe wangshiya ngingasashongo ukt ngyamxolela (sic).” It is loosely translated as: “It is surreal. If I had the power I would bring her back so that we can right our wrongs by talking. But that’s no longer possible because she has left me without me having told her that I forgive her.” When one of Mzolo’s Facebook friends asked him what had happened, he wrote: “Ndoda ngombulele uMy zozo (sic)”. (Man, I killed my Zozo”.) READ MORE: Sandile Mantsoe is sentenced to 32 years for the murder of Karabo Mokoena It is suspected that he wrote the post shortly after committing the crime. – News24