Actor Morgan Freeman says he is devastated that his life is at risk of being undermined after eight people accused him of sexual harassment or inappropriate behaviour The American actor issued a second apology in which he said his actions should not be equated with incidents of sexual assault or abuse in the workplace. Last Thursday CNN first reports the allegations of inappropriate behaviour and harassment as part of its investigation. The broadcasting channel spoke to 16 people, eight of whom said they were victims of what some called harassment and others called inappropriate behaviour by Freeman. Eight said they witnessed Freeman’s alleged conduct. CNN says the 16 people together described a pattern of inappropriate behaviour on set while promoting his movies and at his production company Revelations Entertainment. Freeman said he was devastated that his life is at risk of being undermined in the blink of an eye by media reports. READ MORE: Morgan Freeman apologises following sexual harassment accusations “All victims of assault and harassment deserve to be heard. And we need to listen to them. But it is not right to equate horrific incidents of sexual assault with misplaced compliments or humour.” “I admit that I am someone who feels a need to try to make women and men feel appreciated and at ease around me. As part of that, I would often try to joke with and compliment women, in what I thought was a light-hearted and humorous way,” he said in a statement. He said clearly he was not always coming across the way he intended. “That is why I apologised on Thursday and will continue to apologise to anyone I might have upset, however unintentionally. “But I also want to be clear: I did not create unsafe work environments. I did not assault women. I did not offer employment or advancement in exchange for sex. Any suggestion that I did so is completely false,” he said. Freeman initially issued a statement after the allegations first surfaced. He said at the time that he was not someone who would intentionally offend or knowingly make anyone feel unsafe. READ MORE: New York sues Harvey Weinstein over sexual misconduct Media reports about his behaviour have influenced credit company Visa to suspend its marketing campaign that featured Freeman. He is the latest prominent Hollywood figure to be accused of sexual misconduct after allegations of sex assault by producer Harvey Weinstein. The accusations has led to development of the #MeToo campaign against sexual harassment and has since prompted women and men to speak out about inappropriate behaviour by powerful men. Source: CNN