North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo, who is facing mounting pressure to step down, is set to deliver a budget vote speech in the provincial legislature in Mahikeng on Tuesday. Provincial spokesman Brian Setswambung said Mahumapelo is expected to outline a programme of action for the troubled North West. In his address, Mahumapelo is expected to account for his office’s performance during the previous financial year and outline plans for the 2018/19 financial year, Setswambung said. A ministerial team headed by Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is in Mahikeng to probe issues of governance in the province.  Cabinet put the North West Health Department under administration as it grapples with corruption and the impact of a strike by members of the National Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) who stopped work two months ago. Other members of the team include Co-operative Governance Minister Zweli Mkhize, Police Minister Bheki Cele, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and State Security Minister Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba. READ MORE: Resign or be recalled, ANC top six tell Supra Dlamini-Zuma said a report would be tabled before Cabinet on Wednesday. A wave of violent protests erupted in the North West last month, with shops looted and property damaged, as demonstrators demanded that Mahumapelo resign. The premier, who is also ANC provincial chairman, has refused to do so, claiming the protests were part of a plan to purge then supporters of Dlamini-Zuma at the ANC elective conference last year, which Cyril Ramaphosa won. Although ANC leaders had asked Mahumapelo to resign at a national working committee meeting in Cape Town last week, the ”Black Jesus”, as he is known amongst his supporters, has clung to power. According to weekend media reports, ANC leadership has picked National Council of Provinces (NCOP) chairperson Thandi Modise to take over the leadership of the North West. READ MORE: ‘We want Supra out’ – fresh bid launched to oust NW Premier The ANC top six are currently meeting at Luthuli House to discuss Mahumapelo’s fate. – African News Agency