There was no denying the love between the newly-wedded Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Prince Harry and Meghan (nee Markle) The couple could barely stop smiling as they gazed lovingly at one another at the alter. Harry’s earlier nerves, visible when he arrived at St George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle on Saturday about 30 minutes before wedding proceedings got underway, seemed to be overtaken by raw emotion as he watched his beautiful bride walk down the aisle in an elegant wedding gown designed by British designer Clare Waight Keller, artistic director at Givenchy. READ MORE: 3 things to know about the bishop giving the sermon at the royal wedding He had to wipe away a couple of tears as Meghan’s mother, Doria Ragland, looked on misty-eyed at her daughter and new son-in-law. When Meghan joined him at the alter, Harry could be seeing mouthing the words: “You look amazing. I’m so lucky.” Unlike his more private brother Prince William and his wife Kate Middleton, Harry and Meghan didn’t hold back public displays of affection, holding hands during the ceremony and continuously stealing glances at each other. There was a slightly more modern and less stuffy feel to Meghan and Harry’s nuptials, helped along by the fact that they were not obliged to invite heads of state or other diplomats. The couple deviated from royal traditions from Meghan’s father-in-law Prince Charles walking her down a section of the aisle to having a black American bishop Michael Curry giving an impassioned sermon about the power of love. The couple even had a black gospel choir singing the hymns. Said Curry: “There’s power in love, don’t underestimate it. Don’t even over-sentimentalise  it. … If you don’t believe me, think of a time when you first fell in love. The whole world seemed to centre around you and your beloved.” He said that appreciating and acknowledging love was akin to loving God as “all love comes from God”. The bishop added: “Think and imagine a world where love is the way. … When love is the way, unselfish, sacrificial, redemptive, then no child will go to bed hungry in this world ever again.” Harry set a new precedent in his family by opting to wear a wedding band – a trend bucked by his brother and their father. His band is made of polished platinum while his bride wears a band of Welsh gold. READ MORE: First look at the Duchess of Sussex’s dress The moment everyone had been waiting for – the pair’s first kiss as a married couple – was over as quickly as it begun, but it thrilled the thousands of people lined up on the streets waiting to catch a glimpse of the royal procession, who gave the couple a thunderous round of applause and cheer. From now on, Meghan will be known as the Duchess of Sussex – the first woman to hold this title – and Harry as the Duke of Sussex as bestowed by Queen Elizabeth II. 