Entrepreneur and skin expert Roxy Marosa unpacks some of the causes of eczema and how to identify the skin condition Marosa explains that eczema is classified as a condition that causes the skin to become irritated, red, itchy or inflamed. “It’s irritated, dry skin that looks like to has been bruised or discoloured,” she says. The severity of the skin condition differs from person to person – while some people have mild cases, others have red, inflamed skin all over the body. “Sometimes it can be so bad that when scratching, the skin cracks and bleeds,” she says. Symptoms of eczema include scratching, a very fine itchy rash, cracked skin, or discolouration of the skin inflamed. “It usually shows up in softer parts of the skin like inside the elbow, behind the knees, the neck or even the face, she says. Marosa says the causes of eczema vary. Environmental factors such as dry or cold weather play a role in triggering symptoms. Some people suffer more in areas with dry summers, she says. “In summer, the skin dries out to the point that it cracks and becomes constantly itchy,” she says. She further explains that even though eczema is a dry skin patch, it’s not aggravated by dry skin and can affect all skin types – even oily skin. READ MORE: How to get rid of dark spots The consumption of dairy products also contributes to eczema. Marosa adds that strong chemicals like chlorine can aggravate the condition. “Eczema may be highly aggravated after swimming. You may find that eczema flares up due to the swimming pool chemicals,” she says. She says eczema can be treated and sometimes goes away on its own. Marosa adds that chemical products, such as harsh soaps, should also be avoided. “Gentle, hydrating cleaners that don’t have chemicals are recommended. Use nourishing products.” Due to the unpredictable nature of eczema, Marosa says it’s important to pay attention to when you get flare-ups. “Pay attention to what you’re eating and when you experience problems, because you’ll become aware of what you need to cut from your diet,” she says. Try: Roxy Marosa Anti-Imflammotory Gel, R435