These four habits can be detrimental to your career and reputation within an organisation You’re moody It’s perfectly normal to have “off days” – but constantly being moody can be detrimental to your career, according to an article in Essence. “If you’re typically the team cheerleader rallying everyone to meet deadlines, organising the Friday lunch run or projecting positivity, your boss will likely pick up on any changes to that baseline persona,” says Jane Scudder, a career counsellor cited in the publication. “If you’re in a bad mood or going through a slump, it’s totally okay to pull back a bit,” Scudder adds. “Just acknowledge the change to keep it from taking over and creating problems.” READ MORE: Multitasking can have a negative impact on your career Revealing social media posts It may seem reasonable that if you don’t cite your place of employment on your social media accounts, you’re immune from a disciplinary action for what you post – wrong. “Don’t post anything you’d be embarrassed to show your family over a holiday dinner,” says career coach Cheryl E Palmer. She advises deleting incriminating pictures and videos that could negatively impact your career, and post positive comments on social media. “If you have digital dirt that you don’t want everyone to know about, add positive information via blog posts, comments on articles or social media sites, so those positive results come up first in a search,” she advises. You’re afraid to say no Accepting every task that comes your way means you’re likely to not deliver on everything – which is a no-no. “You risk not being able to competently and completely accomplish the goal to your boss’ expectations. You could also sign up for the projects that don’t showcase your talents,” says Annette Y Harris, a personal brand coach and image consultant. Harris adds that respect is earned by saying no because your plate is too full or you don’t have the right skills to deliver the desired result, rather than tackling a task you’re not skilled at. You don’t attend office gatherings While your skills, expertise and experience play a major role in your performance at a company, attending staff gatherings that are aimed at increasing team morale are equally as important. “You could be viewed as not being a team player or not as committed to the team,” says Devay Campbell, a career coach and human resources professional in North Carolina. “You are sabotaging yourself if you are an ‘eat at your desk’ employee who skips after-hour office events where colleagues and supervisors can get to know you in a less formal environment.” Extra source: Essence