Mother's Day is almost upon us (it's this Sunday, in case you forgot) and we're giving you the best in beauty for mum ... because she's worth it Mother’s Day is almost upon us (it’s this Sunday, in case you forgot) and we’re giving you the best in beauty for mum … because she’s worth it. Wondering what to give your mum this Sunday? Look no further than at our list of beauty buys perfect for pampering, polishing and perfuming her. Scent of a woman Dolce and Gabbana’s The One Baroque limited-edition fragrance is the latest powdery fresh interpretation of the brand’s original The One fragrance, first released in 2006. With a heart containing lily, neroli and jasmine and top notes of Italian bergamot blossom, mandarin and litchi, it is an enchantingly feminine scent. This oriental-floral scent is further enriched by base notes of vetiver, musk and vanilla, which add sensuality and maturity.  Dolce & Gabbana The One Baroque EDT, R1 240 for 50ml Home is where the heart is Moms help make a house a home, so give her a gift to remember for her favorite nook and hideaway room in the house with a diffuser and candle that will immediately relax, invigorate and make her feel cozy all at one. Crabtree and Evelyn have released their modern home scents with candles and diffusers created for specific rooms in the home including the kitchen, bathroom, lounge, bedroom and guest bedroom. Our one to watch for Mother’s Day is the Crabtree and Evelyn Memories Made lounge diffuser and candle made up of apple, galbanum and lilac which will make the memories of movie night with the kids, reading on your favorite couch and relaxing after a long day of work even more special.  Crabtree and Evelyn Memories Made Candle, R800 and Memories Made Diffuser, R1 500 Pampered perfect pores Give your mum DIY-spa skin with ultra-luxurious face masks made to make her feel like a million bucks. Diamonds and gold anyone? Make yourself a cup of tea, put your feet up and let our favorite Skin Republic masks work their magic. Skin Republic’s 24K Gold Peel-Off Face Mask infused with 24-carat gold, known for its potent anti-ageing capabilities, brightens and illuminates the complexion, while helping to reduce fine lines and wrinkles .  Skin Republic 24K Gold Peel-Off Face Mask, R70 Skin Republic’s Platinum + Diamond Powder Peel-Off Face Mask is infused with real platinum and diamond power. It works to fight against damage caused by free radicals, as well as clarify, balance and regenerate skin cells, giving mum that diamond-cut lustre she’s looking for from a face mask.  Skin Republic Platinum + Diamond Powder Peel-Off Face Mask, R70 Skin retreat Treat mum (and her beauty closet) with Sisley’s Black Rose-infused products that work to hydrate skin, while plumping and making it look radiant. Renowned for its anti-ageing active ingredients, Sisley’s Black Rose products are perfect for dry skin in need of extra moisture. Sisley’s Black Rose Precious Face Oil is a must-buy for mum. Rich in Omega 3 and 6 essential fats, this oil prepares the skin to receive nutrients and maintains the oil balance of her skin. Black Rose extract lies at the heart of the formula and lends a wonderful silky softness, visibly smoothing wrinkles, fine lines and revitalising the skin for a radiant complexion.  Sisley Black Rose Precious Face Oil Nutrition Anti-Age, R2 915 Sisley’s Black Rose Infusion Cream is the talk of the town for its ability to give a multi-sensorial experience, while plumping and hydrating your skin. It’s lightweight formula makes it perfect for all skin types, but particularly amazing for dehydrated skin, as the cream’s texture changes to a watery consistency that immediately hydrates and invigorates skin once applied.  Sisley Black Rose Infusion Cream, R2 570