Clerical fashion was the name of the game for some of fashion's most devout at the 2018 Met Gala hosted by the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute last night Clerical fashion was the name of the game for some of fashion’s most devout at the 2018 Met Gala hosted by the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute last night, and while the fashion was downright pompous and pious, it was the crowns, halos and headpieces that had us bowing to these heavenly bodies. Where: New York, New York Theme: “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination” Canonical Crowning Rihanna brought the Vatican to the runway in this Catholic Pope-inspired headpiece ensuring she reigned over all the Heavenly Bodies in attendance as the co-host of this year’s Gala. Celestial Circlets. Actress Lily Collins, model Rosie Huntington Whiteley were visions in celestial circlets in interpretations of both dark and light theological bodies. Lily Collins Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Medieval Musings Actress Zendaya’s crusader knight-inspired outfit was perfectly topped by a a medieval pageboy hair cut, turning the gala’s theme on its head with a less literal but still religious interpretation of a heavenly body. Virginal Veiling Modern Madonna Grownish star, Tara Shahidi channeled “Like A Virgin” Madonna for her interpretation of the catholic imagination working a black netted veil to contrast her pure white gown. Sacrosanct Roses Marjorie Harvey wore a crown and roses as an homage to biblical rose and religious crownings with a stunning headpiece created by Dolce and Gabbana to compliment her gown. Supernatural stirrings Songstress Lana del Rey wore a breath-taking halo headpiece surrounded by angelic angel wings to the gala. Out of this world? Of course! Saintly wreathing Model Winnie Harlow attended the gala in a puritanical white dress and headpiece that reached the stars… and featured a few too. Divine diadem When Sarah Jessica Parker is in New York, she pulls out her Carrie Bradshaw look and schools us on fashion. SJP walked the runway wearing a showpiece biblical headdress, complete with a miniature painted nativity scene.