The Independent Regulatory Board of Auditing (IRBA) has confirmed that an investigation is underway to determine why an auditing firm was unable to quantify how much Vodacom made from the "Please Call Me" concept According to a Sowetan report, Vodacom has offered Nkosana Malate, the man credited with inventing the “Please Call Me” concept, R10 million as compensation for his invention. It’s unclear how Vodacom came up with the figure, given that an auditing firm appointed by the network operator that combed through the company’s financials, allegedly wasn’t able to quantify the profit margins the invention generated for the company. And that’s why Makate says he’s approached the auditing watchdog to get to the bottom of the mystery. READ MORE: Please call me creator files fresh ConCourt papers He has lodged a complaint against Vodacom and its auditors for alleged reckless management and misrepresentation of annual financial statements, Sunday Times reported. Makate wants Vodacom to pay him 15% of the revenue the company gained from his creation, which his lawyers, using calculations based on actuarial estimations, puts the figure at around R70 billion. Documents submitted as part of Makate’s complaint laid with the IRBA, show that Vodacom argued it had reached the R10 million compensatory figure based on a model using the company’s former CEO Alan Knott-Craig’s R3,5 million salary earned in 2001. “Adding the time value of money from 2001-2016, this yielded R7,7 million,” Vodacom said in documents for the arbitration process. “In all the circumstances, we respectfully submit that the appropriate determination to be made is one that obliges Vodacom to pay to Mr Makate the sum of R10 million as constituting reasonable compensation.” The two parties have been locked in settlement negotiations for over two years, with no foreseeable end in sight. READ MORE: Protect your intellectual property Malate, who now works for the SA Local Government Association, says it’s been a frustrating and traumatic period in his life. Vodacom spokesperson Byron Kennedy told Sowetan that CEO Shameel Joosub had now been drawn into the negotiations. He had deliberately not participated in the initial phase of negotiations in case a deadlock, as is the case now, further down the line ensued. Additional reporting by Sunday Times and Sowetan