The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) and the DA in the eThekwini region in Durban want the justice system to deal harshly with perpetrators of violence against women following the murder of a 21-year-old student on Tuesday night As the Mangosuthu University of Technology welcomed its new vice-chancellor, the institution also lost one of its students, Zolile Khumalo, who was shot dead on Tuesday night. Khumalo, 21, was a first-year quantity surveying student. She was allegedly shot dead by an ex-student at a university residence in Lonsdale in Durban. Khumalo’s body was found on Wednesday morning with multiple gunshot wounds at Lonsdale in South Beach, Durban. A 23-year-old man, who is believed to be her former boyfriend, apparently confessed to the crime on Facebook. READ MORE: Woman speaks out about abuse The ANC Youth League said it was shocked and angered by Khumalo’s brutal killing. “The killing of such a young lady at the hands of her ex-boyfriend must provide to authorities the clearest of signs that the current legal system continues to place young women at risk. We call upon the criminal justice system to use this case to set an example, to mete out the swiftest and harshest punishment possible in order to ensure that such incidents do not happen again,” ANCYL regional spokesperson Thulisa Ndlela said. He said the youth league believed it was time for society to instigate a review of the current criminal justice system. “The rate of violence against young women in particular has reached alarming levels,” Ndlela said. READ MORE: Woman reveals underage sexual relationship with R Kelly DA eThekwini councillor Nomfundo Khubone said it was sad that on the eve of the guilty verdict of Sandile Mantsoe – who was murdered his girlfriend Karabo Mokoena – another young woman was murdered. “We are calling on the justice system to deal harshly with individuals who continue to massacre women in this country. We will continue to seek justice for Khumalo and other defenceless women,” said Khubone. She said the DA called on MUT management to urgently tighten security in and around its residences, The university expressed its sadness at Khumalo’s passing. READ MORE: Deputy Minister admits to slapping woman at nightclub “It is reported that Zolile was shot and killed by an ex-student of the university yesterday,” it said in a Facebook post. The MUT said the accused was signed into Khumalo’s residence by another registered student. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said a 23-year-old man, who was found at the scene, surrendered to the police. An unlicensed firearm and ammunition were recovered at the scene, Zwane said. READ MORE: R. Kelly is a danger to black womanhood Zwane said the man is expected to appear at the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday or Friday on charges of murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. The South African National Civic Organisation said it believed that a harsh sentence for Mantsoe would serve as a deterrent for perpetrators of gender-based violence. – News24Wire