A survey by Speakers University has revealed that poor communication is the major weakness of South African managers Poor communication is the greatest weakness of today’s managers and leads to low morale, job dissatisfaction and poor performance. These are the findings of a survey conducted with 30 organisations composed of 10 large businesses, 10 government agencies and 10 medium-sized enterprises. It was conducted over a six-month period which concluded in March this year. The weaknesses that have been identified revealed common communication problems that have been grouped into five areas: READ MORE: How new managers can ensure they don’t fail These weaknesses are going to be addressed sy this year’s fourth annual Speakers University, where leaders, managers, communication industry practitioners, entrepreneurs and public speakers will be gathering to increase their communication acumen. The event is intended to improve the career prospects of individuals in various sectors by strengthening their ability to communicate effectively with markets, crowds, teams, colleagues and individuals. The event tagline is aptly designated: “Turning Your Voice into an Invoice”. The exhilarating full-day programme will start off with a keynote address by author and internationally acclaimed public speaker Billy Selekane. Delegates will also engage with seven other communication experts, including Milton Nkosi (BBC news analyst and correspondent), Timothy Maurice Webster (personal branding expert, motivational speaker and author) and Bonsai Shongwe (nestselling author, inspirational speaker, leadership and human brand management expert). The full-day programme will be facilitated by Charles Ndabeni (Chairman of The Definition and internationally acclaimed speaker). The Speakers University 2018 is billed as an interactive and powerful experience where delegates are given tools, secrets and strategies to become leading communicators in their field. READ MORE: Developing managers early in their careers can improve performance Each expert is given an hour to reveal their ultimate secret to having an edge as a communicator, in various spheres. Speakers University 2018 will host more than 500 delegates again this year – composed of senior executives, entrepreneurs, HR professionals, salespeople, communicators, media presenters as well as middle and junior managers.  The event will take place at the ULP House in Midrand on Saturday, 26 May 2018, from 9am-5pm.