South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday, defended the introduction of a minimum wage of R20 an hour in South Africa, but at the same time conceded it was not a "living wage". President Cyril Ramaphosa has admitted that the proposed R20 an hour national minimum wage is not a living wage, but says it’s a baseline to establish a living wage for workers in South Africa. The president was speaking at a Worker’s Day rally hosted by ANC alliance partner Cosatu in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. Ramaphosa said the government’s social partners, including Cosatu, had agreed on the hourly rate to ensure there is no negative effect on the economy and job creation. “We have put in place mechanisms to ensure that as we increase the minimum wage over time, we do so in a way that meaningfully reduces poverty and inequality and contributes to the inclusive growth of our economy,” he said. “All social partners recognise that at its introduction, the national minimum wage will be less than what we consider to be a living wage. The social partners also agree that it must be our firm determination to move as quickly as possible to a living wage.” READ MORE: Cosatu won’t join general strike on Wednesday, supports minimum wage Cosatu’s rival, the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has threatened to make the country ungovernable if the minimum wage is introduced, likening the move to implementing “slave wages”. Saftu is also against new proposed labour laws limiting workers’ rights to strike. But Ramaphosa denied that the government wanted to strip workers of their rights. “We know that strikes are intended to inflict harm on the intransigent employer, but we also know that strikes inflict harm on the broader economy and indeed on workers themselves, who lose out on wages. Workers therefore only embark on strike action as a last resort, by way of a democratic decision, understanding that it demands a sacrifice from them and their families,” he said. READ MORE: Cosatu disappointed after minimum wage implementation date is pushed back “As a revolutionary alliance, as a government, we will do nothing that will take that right away from workers.” – African News Agency