Renowned South African DJ Black Coffee has confirmed collaborations with Pharrell Williams and Akon in his upcoming album, which he hopes to release this year Black Coffee, whose real name is Nkosinathi Maphumulo, told Complex News during his UK tour about his upcoming album and dream collaborations. When asked if he would be working with Akon this year, he said they’ve already completed a song. “We have spent some time in the studio. I haven’t opened that song in a while. I’m kind of working with everyone that I really love, and Akon has been a friend and like a bigger brother to me,” he said. He said he is already working on a song with Pharrell and helping David Guetta with his album. He told Complex News’s Fenn O’Meally that he is from the dance world, but considers himself a producer. READ MORE: Black Coffee scoops another international award “Now I’m starting to really do stuff… I’m working on a song with Yuna, working on a song with Cassie, for their projects. I’m doing something with Diplo. That’s the world I want to be in. I’m doing songs; they don’t have to be in the club,” he says. The renowned DJ says he plans to make his next album more appealing globally and one which nwould accommodate everyone he loves, both at home and in the world. “I’m working on my album‚ so I’m kinda like working with everyone that I really love. So, I’m putting together this body of work that I’m hopefully going to release by the end of August,” he says. It hasn’t all been coming up roses for Black Coffee – he recently clashed with The Kiffness – a live electronic music group from Cape Town – over an Instagram story. READ MORE: Black Coffee signs Riky Rick to his record label He had been travelling on a private plane when he posted a video in which DJ Euphonik labelled a female pilot a “taxi driver”. Euphonik can be heard saying: “Guys, let’s compare taxi drivers. How pretty is yours?” The Kiffness responded by posting on their Facebook page that they have lost respect and admiration for Black Coffee and found Euphonik’s remark sexist. Additional source: Complex News