The South Gauteng High Court denied members of the Gupta family leave to appeal an interim court order compelling them to return a rented luxury jet to its foreign owner. The South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Thursday dismissed an application by the Gupta family for leave to appeal an order that their aeroplane be grounded. On March 19, the same court ordered the Gupta family to deliver a Bombardier Global 6000 aircraft to Lanseria International Airport within 15 calendar days. The plane was spotted at the airport in April. Judge Fayeeza Kathree-Setiloane handed an interim order in March that the aircraft, a luxury Bombardier Global 6000 business jet, should be returned and held at Lanseria Airport. The Guptas lodged an application on  March 23 to challenge the ruling. The Guptas had a lease agreement with Export Development Canada (EDC) and Stoneriver for the Bombardier Global 6000 aircraft but are currently engaged in a legal dispute in UK courts over that agreement. On Thursday, Judge Kathree-Setiloane said it would not be in the interests of justice to grant the application for leave to appeal. READ MORE: Guptas call Eskom inquiry ‘political showboating’ in lawyer’s letter “This court granted interim relief, pending final determination of the English proceedings… Lastly, the order granted here does not dispose of the relief sought in the English proceedings. It merely preserves the safety,” the judge ruled. During the previous court proceedings, Stoneriver stated that between October and December 2017, there were a number of breaches of the lease agreement, and the company had terminated the agreement with Westdawn Investments on December 13. Stoneriver then instructed Westdawn, a Gupta-owned company, to return the aircraft. Westdawn refused. It challenged the notice to cancel the lease in the UK courts, leading Stoneriver and EDC to approach the South African courts to grant an interim order to have the plane grounded and stored until the matter was finalised in the English courts. READ MORE: Hawks raid Guptas’ Saxonwold home, arrest one brother Court papers from March indicate public tracking for the aircraft was turned off on 4 February after Westdawn was queried about the jet’s whereabouts. This is said to have “created an extraordinary situation”, depriving its owner and financier of information on its whereabouts. – African News Agency