While we all sacrifice a lot for work, there are some things that should never have to take a back seat With the rise of technology in modern society, it’s becoming harder and harder to separate your personal life from your work life because of the 24-hour access to work. One study done by the American Psychological Association found that 50% of people actually go through their emails before and after work hours, including weekends, while 44% of people also peek at emails while on holiday. This is a shocking statistic that once again reveals how many have not yet mastered the setting of boundaries between our personal and professional lives, which can cause problems with our health and see our personal lives suffer. Related to this is another boundary – the boundary between your employer and yourself, the employee. It’s important to understand that the relationship you have with your boss is not a “yes” relationship where you have to give into every demand. You don’t owe your boss everything. READ MORE: The 7 things bosses do that drive talent away Travis Bradberry, author of Emotional Intelligence 2.0 and the founder of Talent Smart, writes that there are five things that no one owes their boss: YOUR HEALTH Setting boundaries where your health is concerned is harder than most of the things on the list because the effects are gradual and not as obviously related. Bradberry writes that the build up of stress, the loss of sleep and the constant work-mode you’re in without any exercise eventually starts having physical effects. Just one blink and you find that your back is giving you problems, your eyesight is strained and you’re struggling to sleep at night. He says that the key here is to be one step ahead and not to allow things to spiral out of control. Prevention, he says, is better than cure. So do things that will keep you healthy, like taking regular walks during lunch, being deliberate about not working on weekends, not moving your holidays because of work and staying away from anything work-related during those times. If you struggle with these, that’s the sign that your work has crossed boundaries and you should take steps to rectify this.