Rapper Molemo “Jub Jub" Maarohanye is making his way to your TV screens as the host of a brand-new show The rapper, who is out of prison on parole, will host Uthando Noxolo (Love and Forgiveness) – a show about forgiveness. It allows the star an opportunity to travel around the country and offer different individuals the opportunity to find redemption. Jub Jub and his friend Themba Tshabalala were convicted of culpable homicide in 2012 for killing four children in 2010 while drag racing in Soweto. The pair were granted bail in January last year after spending half of their eight-year prison sentence behind bars. The show will broadcast on 20 May at 9pm on Moja Love DStv (channel 157). Channel manager Jacqueline Setai said they chose Jub Jub because he had gone through a process of coming to terms with his actions – mainly how it affected the lives of others – and taking responsibility. READ MORE: Jub Jub opens up about his time in prison The star shared the trailer of the new show in an Instagram post. He wrote: “Sometimes the smallest step in the right direction ends up being the biggest step of your life. The past couple of years have been the most informative, happiest, difficult, hurtful, thoughtful, altering, powerful, accepting years of my life.” He wrote that talent is one thing that nobody could ever take away from him. “I dreamt of my painting and then I painted my dream.” Jub Jub’s role will be to ensure that conversation is taking place between the two individuals and ensure the parties understand each other. READ MORE: Jub Jub, Tshabalala murder conviction overturned Setai said their intent was to do a show about forgiveness. “In creating our shows, we ask ourselves what will our audience get to take away from watching this. We would like to amplify a message which is: working on ourselves is a way of changing the world – instead of waiting for others to change, consider changing some parts of ourselves,” she said. Setai said with their content, they want to ensure authenticity. Therefore their show has aspects of the testimonial, like Uthando Noxolo. “The main purpose is to role model the process of asking for forgiveness,” she said.