Is Eskom trying to hide what happened to Thembisile Yende? Her family certainly believes so Yende’s family have alluded to the power utility’s complicity in her murder and accused her employers of being part of a larger syndicate that Yende could have been investigating. These sensational allegations were levelled against Eskom by Yende’s brother, Mboneni, in an interview with Talk Radio 702 on Tuesday. “We strongly believe this is a syndicate that involves the company as a whole. We don’t know what Thembisile was investigating that could have led to her death,” he said. READ MORE: “I am still in pain” – Thembisile Yende’s mom They are of this opinion because crucial evidence from security cameras facing the area where Yende’s body was found has suddenly been removed, as has any hope of recovering evidence that could fill in the blanks. “We had to drag the Investigating Officers to the su-bstation to show them where the cameras were, because the cameras that were facing the room where Thembisile’s body was found were removed and no-one knows what happened to them,” Mboneni said. The family is also questioning why Eskom initially confirmed that camera footage taken from 17 May last year shows her entering her workplace, but now says the cameras weren’t functional and stopped working on 11 May. “We believe there is a lot of contradiction within Thembisile’s murder case and if Eskom really wanted to find the killers, because it is evident the killers are behind the sub-station gate, the killers are within Eskom, we would have found the killers by now,” he said. While Eskom technician David Ngwenya has been charged with Yende’s murder, Mboneni says the family is convinced he’s not the only person involved. He has previously questioned how Ngwenya was bankrolling the fees of Advocate Zola Majavu – one of the most formidable defence lawyers in the country. “He can have the best lawyer in the country, but a crime was committed. How does David afford Majavu? This clearly shows that there are people assisting him.” READ MORE: Defence lawyer claims DNA results will acquit Thembisile Yende murder-accused The 43-year-old Ngwenya has been accused of injecting Yende, his alleged lover, with a substance, before striking her on the head with a crowbar and subsequently suffocating and strangling her after a struggle. The state believes he killed her because he was afraid she would “spill the beans” on his alleged involvement in a copper cable theft syndicate. Mojavu believes DNA evidence exonerates his client. Mboneni says the family also feels let down by the police as they have consistently had to present them with leads to investigate.