The University of Cape Town (UCT) has welcomed the latest Centre for World University Rankings (CWUR) rankings, as it claims the top spot in Africa UCT claimed the top spot among African universities, taking over from the University of the Witwatersrand, which was in the lead position for four consecutive years. Climbing from 259th in 2017 to 223rd this year, UCT has established itself as the best university in the country and in Africa. The university climbed in this year’s CWUR due to a changed methodology, which improves research contribution to 70% of the total score. It constantly strives to improve research performance and therefore scores well in all research-related indicators and continues to increase its publications and citations each year. Rankings such as this also further enhance UCT’s ability to constantly build on an extremely strong international collaborative research framework. READ MORE: Best university for law students in SA – report The seven South African universities on this year’s list include University of KwaZulu-Natal at number three, followed by University of Pretoria, Stellenbosch University, University of Johannesburg and North West University. For the seventh year in a row, Harvard University has been ranked as the top global university by CWUR, followed by Stanford University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Cambridge and University of Oxford. CWUR’s rankings grade universities on seven factors, including quality of teaching, alumni employment, quality of faculty, research output, quality publications, influence and citations. The USA has eight representatives in the top 10, which has been the case since the rankings started in 2012, and 213 in the top 1 000. Some 108 Chinese universities made the top 1 000 this year, up from 97 in 2017 and 90 in 2016. The UK’s top 10 universities have all improved or maintained places compared to last year. CWUR provides policy advice, strategic insights, and consulting services to governments and universities to improve educational and research outcomes. UCT Media Liason and Monitoring Officer Aamirah Sonday says the university is pleased and proud to be ranked as the top South African university by the CWUR. She says the factors in which the rankings grade are based on are a reflection of UCT’s strong record of and emphasis on research and academic excellence. “While we regard our positions in international ranking systems with a measure of caution, we are happy to be counted as a leading university in South Africa and Africa and will continue to work with our partners across the continent in developing the expertise and capacity to solve Africa-specific problems and strengthen the continent’s voice in global debates,” says Sonday. READ MORE: Get to know UCT Vice-Chancellor Mamokgethi Phakeng She explains that good scores in the quality of education, quality of faculty and alumni employment further attest to the ongoing outstanding achievements of UCT’s alumni and staff. The category of alumni employment is based only on the alumni who have held CEO positions since 2011 at the world’s top companies (on the Forbes Global 2 000 list), relative to the university’s size. 