Suing your employer represents a major step, which often has far-reaching consequences, says an HR expert Your employer can dismiss you based on your conduct, your capacity as an employee and the operational requirements of your workplace. However, there are times when your job may feel toxic and you realise that the only way to solve any problem or wrongdoing may be heading to court to sue your employer. We spoke to Martin Westcott, Executive Chairman of P E Corporate Services, a South African HR service provider, about this decision. Westcott advises that the decision to sue one’s employer represents a major step, which often has far-reaching consequences. He says the decision to do so will depend on the type and severity of the issue giving rise to a lawsuit. “It should thus be considered only after all other avenues and channels such as the use of company policies (grievance procedures), or provisions set out in the employment contract or Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) for dealing with the issue, have been exhausted,” he says. READ MORE: Are employers exacerbating millennial entitlement? He reckons that an incident such as evidence of fraud or corruption may, for example, be referred directly to the Chairman of the organisation’s Audit and Governance Committee, unfair dismissal may be referred to the CCMA, and many other issues may be resolved by extended negotiation between the two parties. “However, none of these policies or procedures may provide a sufficient, adequate or appropriate remedy for a particular situation. In such cases, the desire to sue would still need to be evaluated carefully with consideration given to the desired end result, the probability of success and the associated cost implications,” says Westcott. Every workplace comes with its pros and cons and the law doesn’t require your horrible boss to treat you like family. They can play favourites as long as their bias towards employee is not based on their gender, race, sexual orientation, culture, religion or any other personal history. Westcott says that legal actions typically turn former colleagues into adversaries. Depending on the nature of the claim, some legal battles can drag on for months or even years. It is advisable to first figure out when to pursue the legal battle, as this may jeopardise the working relationship. READ MORE: Should you give your prospective employer a copy of your salary slip? “Once an employee has initiated legal action against an employer, it is obviously very difficult for the employee/employer relationship to be re-established to a positive, productive and even trusting one. While the legal case will be decided on the merits of the case, emotions take much longer to be restored, and may never be restored on the basis required for a mutually productive working relationship,” says Westcott.