Lerato Kganyago, better known to her millions of fans as "LKG", will be taking the reins as the sassy but sensitive host of Project Runway SA The creative challenge of stepping into the shoes of the series’ original producer and host, Heidi Klum, is one which Kganyago is firmly capable of meeting. She was announced as the host at a cocktail event on Wednesday evening in Rosebank, Johannesburg, telling the assembled guests how much she’s enjoying set life so far. Project Runway SA is currently in production, as a collaboration between Mzansi Magic and Ndalo Pictures, in association with 4th STREET Wines and production partners Rapid Blue. Always on-trend, Kganyago is a go-getting former beauty queen, TV talk show host, presenter, DJ, entrepreneur and actress, who scooped this year’s Safta for Best TV Presenter and stole the hearts of everyone at Project Runway SA with her sensitive and knowledgeable interpretation of Klum’s reputable US role. READ MORE: Noni Gasa unveiled as Project Runway SA judge Said Kganyago: “It feels as though it’s the perfect time for me to percolate my previous experience and expertise into a brand-new vehicle. I’m looking forward to instilling that knowledge in the contestants, as they embark on this exciting journey and to being part of the trailblazing production that’s giving emerging design talent the time to shine. There is something gratifying about helping uncover the new fashion stars of tomorrow, and giving them the platform to show South Africa what they’re made of!”  As Project Runway SA’s host, Kganyago will be leading South African audiences through the adventures, dramas and stories as they unfold on-screen. She will be alongside Noni Gasa and Rahim Rawjee on the panel of expert judges and she will be responsible for eliminating contestants at the end of each episode. She’s also be nurturing their talent alongside Project Runway SA mentor Gert-Johan Coetzee. “I am going to be encouraging the designers to cut out the noise and to follow their inner voices,” Kganyago added. READ MORE: Project Runway SA announces mentor Whether she’s in the boardroom or on stage in power suits, ball gowns, or a pair of jeans and a T-shirt, Kganyago has always seen fashion as a canvas for the people. “We live in a very visual time, and the clothes we choose to wear – and how we put them together – become a billboard of who we really are.” Ndalo Pictures founder and CEO Khanyi Dhlomo said Kganyago was “on another level”. “She’s bold, she’s sharp, she’s witty, her uninhibited spontaneity is thoroughly entertaining, and even though she almost always looks as if she’s just about to glide back onto the catwalk, she’s incredibly unaffected. She’s the real deal,” Dhlomo commented. *Project Runway SA, Season 1, will launch on Mzansi Magic, DStv channel 161, in July. 