Former deputy minister of Higher Education, Mduduzi Manana, is fighting allegations that he abused his domestic worker, claiming there's a campaign to tarnish his image In a statement released last night, the African National Congress (ANC) MP said the new abuse allegations levelled against him were both unfortunate and malicious. Reports have emerged that a former employee of Manana’s had laid charges of assault, crimen injuria and intimidation over the weekend. He said the Zimbabwean national, Catherine Wiro, was employed as his domestic worker for a period of two weeks. “On her first week at work, I realised that she often gives access to everyone who comes to my home and I warned her about a possible security risk that such conduct poses to me and especially to her as she could easily be raped,” he said. He said he warned her during the week preceding the long weekend and gave her permission to go home as he was also travelling to his home province in Mpumalanga. According to him, she returned to work on 1 May and the following day he brought to her attention that he is missing some of his possessions including a camera and a box of crystal glasses. READ MORE: Assault charges against Mduduzi Manana withdrawn “She responded by crying that I am accusing her of stealing. On 06 May 2018, I woke up in the morning and told her that I was expecting a guest and she should prepare breakfast for two persons. “I went back to take a shower and then I heard voices from the kitchen. I stepped out of my bedroom and discovered that my guest had already made herself comfortable at my home. I then confronted Ms Wiro that she should have verified with me that there was Ms Sithembile Ntuli at the gate before opening for her because I had not told her the name of the guest that I was having breakfast with,” he said. He wrote that like any other employer, it is within his right to reprimand her employee if she flouts the rules of the house, and she responded by laughing, much to his guest’s apparent shock. “I then asked her if there was anything funny from what I’m saying. She responded and said ‘I do not know’. I went on to ask if she is still interested in the job. Again, she responded and said ‘I said I do not know’. I then asked her to leave the house as that was not the correct attitude for any workplace,” he said. Manana explained that since the case of assault which was levelled against him and for which he pleaded guilty, there have been desperate attempts to discredit and tarnish his name. “This deliberate ploy is to use assault as a permanent stigma attached to me by my detractors whom I believe had a major influence in her opening the case and giving her access to the media community. The intriguing part is that Ms Wiro was at the police station with a journalist. This is happening despite many corrective measures I have put in place to embrace, empower and push for the emancipation of women in our country. READ MORE: Mduduzi Manana faces fresh assault allegations “I have stated before that the incident that unfolded at Cubana leading to my guilty plea was unfortunate and sad, to an extent that it cost my job, and therefore I could never have a repeat of it. “I am aware that a case of assault has been withdrawn but I have instructed my lawyers to file a legal suit against the Wiro family for extortion as they demanded an amount of R100 000. Instead, I gave Ms Wiro money that was due to her for the two weeks period that she worked at my home. Further details on this specific matter remain sub judice,” he said. The charges which were filed on Sunday evening at the Douglasdale police station in the north of Johannesburg were withdrawn a few hours later.