Not only does loving yourself increase your overall happiness, it increases your visibility in the workplace and improves your career opportunities In today’s results-driven society, your performance is often accessed, scrutinised and criticised, which can lead to self-doubt. When you internalise negative comments, you limit yourself by believing that you don’t have what it takes to achieve your hopes and dreams. Don’t allow the words or actions of others to dictate who you are and what you can achieve, says executive business coach Pat Roberts. “What you think about yourself impacts the way you behave and only you can turn your self-doubt into self-belief. Consider what you need to believe about yourself in order to go after an opportunity or do something you really want to do. Then question what’s holding you back from going for it and determine how you can overcome these issues,” she suggests. HOW TO FALL IN LOVE WITH YOURSELF • Focus on the positives Make a conscious effort to rid yourself of self-deprecating thoughts. Our brains are very good at noticing failures, so it’s important to focus on and celebrate your strengths, talents, abilities and accomplishments. Keep a list of all your successes in life to help you gain a sense of what you can accomplish. You’ll start to realise that you have a lot more potential than you thought you had. • Treat yourself with respect Be kind to yourself and try not to sweat the small stuff. Make sure that when you talk and act, you always show yourself respect. Don’t disparage yourself and stand up for yourself when someone disrespects you. • Surround yourself with positive people Think about the people with whom you regularly spend time. Are they adding to your positive self-image? Actively associate with people who make you feel good about yourself and support your goals. When it comes to your career, it’s advisable to find a mentor who’s achieved what you’re seeking to accomplish and consult them about your challenges, plans and goals. • Work on your personal brand Determine who you are and what you want you portray to the world. Dress for success, carry yourself upright and walk as though you mean business. When it comes to social media, only post positive things that align with your brand.