Chosen to deliver the sermon at what will likely be the wedding of the year, the Most Reverend Michael Bruce Curry was expected to have listeners in the chapel and watching from home, totally enthralled The Most Reverend Michael Bruce Curry, the 27th presiding bishop and primate of the Episcopal Church, travelled to the UK specifically to take part in the service. He had been requested by Meghan and Harry to preside alongside the dean of Windsor, the Right Reverend David Conner and Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury As the first African-American to have served as the Episcopal Church’s presiding bishop, Curry is likely accustomed to garnering a lot of attention. His sermon at the wedding illustrates why he’s risen to the head of the Episcopal church; and here are reasons why the royal couple may have wanted to include him in the proceedings: He’s also a US citizen: While she may be marrying into a British family, it’s evident that Meghan is not willing to forget or abandon the country of her birth. Curry has traced his lineage to slaves and sharecroppers in North Carolina but he was born in Chicago and went to school in New York. Activism is a part of his life: Instead of wedding gifts, Harry and Meghan have requested donations be made to a selection of charities of their choice. This decision may be influenced by the reality that they are financially comfortable, but it’s also an indication of their shared philanthrophic outlook. Meghan, an ardent activist and humanitarian has spoken out for a number of causes and organisations. She’s personally associated with renowned charities including World Vision, UN Women, and even worked as a counsellor for One Young World. Bishop Curry’s father was an outspoken civil rights activist and the cleric has followed in his footsteps. The most high profile of his civil rights advocacy has been allowing same-sex marriages to be performed in North Carolina – his area of jurisdiction as the bishop. He’s a published author: Crazy Christians: A Call to Follow Jesus is a 2017 collection of essays that share the Episcopalian churches teachings. His specific portion urged believers to follow the Jesus movement. Other topics covered in the book include racial justice, multiculturalism and ministry to young people. Songs My Grandma Sang was published in 2015. This novel reflects on the music of Curry’s childhood. Writing about the tunes that shaped his mind and heart, he credited them for laying a firm foundation. “They were not just songs with catchy tunes. They were songs that sang of a way of viewing the world that could make life liveable no matter what. They reflected a way of looking at life, a way of engaging life, a way of dealing with whatever life threw at you in faith and hope.” 