The 20-year-old woman has filed a lawsuit against the American R&B singer, who "knowingly" infected her with an incurable sexually transmitted disease According to the lawsuit seen by CNN, Faith Rogers said she was 19 when she first met the singer last year after he performed in San Antonio, Texas. She reportedly said she was in a year-long relationship with Kelly, formed under the auspices of helping her develop a career in entertainment. The lawsuit states that the singer stayed in contact with Rodgers after he left Texas, saying he wanted them to develop a long-term romantic relationship. READ MORE: R Kelly allegedly running an abusive ‘cult’ A few weeks later, he arranged for Rogers to travel to New York for one of his concerts and put her up in a hotel. After the show, Rodgers claims the singer came to her room, disregarded her statements that she was not ready for sex and initiated non-consensual oral and vaginal intercourse. Rogers also claims that Kelly filmed her without her consent, locked her in rooms and motor vehicles as punishment for not pleasing him sexually and subjected her to abuse. “During the course of their approximately one-year relationship, defendant R Kelly, routinely engaged in intimidation, mental, verbal and sexual abuse, during and after sexual contact,” states the lawsuit. It further states that the defendant’s conduct was designed to humiliate, embarrass, intimidate and shame the plaintiff. CNN reports that representatives for Kelly declined to comment on this story. This is the recent allegations in a series of accusation of sexual misconduct against Kelly. Earlier this month, the streaming service Spotify removed his music from its all playlists and algorithmic recommendations as part of its policy on hate content and hateful conduct. The 51-year-old R&B star has long been embroiled in accusations of sexual criminality, but has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. READ MORE: R Kelly accused of running an abusive ‘cult’ He was indicted on child pornography charges of allegedly videotaping himself having sex with an unidentified underage girl in 2002. The case went to trial in 2008 and he was acquitted. Last year, the 24-year-old woman alleged she had a sexual relationship with Kelly when she was 16. However, he has denied the accusation and no criminal charges were filed. In July last year, an explosive Buzzfeed article claimed the singer was holding a group of adult women against their will as part of what some of their parents said it was a “cult”. At the time, he wouldn’t comment but his attorney dismissed allegations in an email to Buzzfeed. Additional source: CNN 