Career paths for women starting to develop the same way as men Women have come a long way in entering the workplace. From the days of being stuck at home working in the kitchen, many women nowadays are rising up the corporate ladder and taking high positions in their various industries. Generally, women tend to drop off at the some point during their career after taking on the role of raising their children and would rarely return to the labour force. According to the report, Children serve to reduce participation in 24-44 age group in women. The study Women Working Longer: Facts and Some Explanations was published in the National Bureau of Economic Research. READ MORE: Flexitime for women could bridge the gender pay gap However, these days, the arch of their career path is starting to look a lot more like men’s than it previously did. This can be attributed in part to the higher levels of education that women are attaining. “Women are more likely than in previous generations to work at almost every point in their lives, including in their 20s and 30s when they often used to be home with children. Now, if mothers take breaks at all, it’s often not until their late 30s or early 40s — those who leave are likely to return to the labour force,” says the study. Furthermore, women are working well into their sixties and beyond according to the Harvard study. READ MORE: Women are more career-driven when they’ve seen their dads do housework This is not to say that women no longer experience challenges in the workplace. The gender pay gap is one of the issues or factors that need to be resolved. According to more research done by Harvard University, when men and women start off at work, they earn almost equally in terms of salary scale. However, as time goes on, the number decreases and the gender pay gap becomes more apparent. “Men and women begin their employment with earnings that are fairly similar, both for full-time year-round workers and for all workers with controls for hours and weeks. In the case of the latter group, relative earnings are in the 90% range for the most recent cohorts even without any other controls. But these ratios soon decline and in some cases plummet to below the 70% level,” is says. However, there are still a number of things that women are experiencing that prevent them from reaching the highs of their male counterparts. According to other research by Cornel University, as soon as women enter a previously male dominated industry, the pay goes down.