Several women have accused celebrated actor Morgan Freeman of sexual harassment, while sexual assault-accused Harvey Weinstein faces arrest CNN reports that film star Morgan Freeman is facing several accusations ranging from unwanted touching to sexually suggestive comments – on movie sets, in office environments and during a meeting with the media. One woman, a production assistant told CNN that she had endured harassment for several months while working on the set of Going in Style, a film released last year starring Freeman. READ MORE: Morgan Freeman adds to drive-time pleasure as GPS navigation voice She said the 80-year-old touched her repeatedly and one incident involved the actor trying to lift her skirt and asked if she was wearing underwear. According to CNN, Freeman’s alleged inappropriate behaviour was not limited to that movie set. Another woman who was a senior member of the production staff of the movie Now You See Me told CNN that Freeman sexually harassed her and her female assistant on numerous occasions by making comments about their bodies. She said staff knew not to wear any top that would show their breasts, not to wear anything that would show their bottoms or any close-fitting clothes if Freeman was around. He has since apologised to anyone who felt uncomfortable or disrespected following these allegations of misconduct. He said making women feel uncomfortable was never his intent. “Anyone who knows me or has worked with me knows I am not someone who would intentionally offend or knowingly make anyone feel uneasy,” he said in a statement. CNN says it has also spoken to dozens of people who worked with of for Freeman, some of whom praised him and insisted his behaviour was always professional. Freeman is the latest prominent Hollywood figure to be accused of sexual misconduct after allegations of sex assault by producer Harvey Weinstein, which led to the development of the #MeToo campaign against sexual harassment. READ MORE: New York sues Harvey Weinstein over sexual misconduct Meanwhile, the film producer Weinstein is expected to surrender to authorities in New York today following months of being toppled from Hollywood’s most powerful ranks by scores of women accusing him of sexual assault. Reuters reports that his spokesperson Juda Engelmayer and lawyer Benjamin Brafman both declined to comment. The co-founder of the Miramax studio and The Weinstein Co has been accused by more than 70 women of sexual misconduct, including rape. Weinstein’s allegations gave rise to the #MeToo campaign in which hundreds of women have publicly accused powerful men in business, government and entertainment. He has reportedly denied having non-consensual sex with anyone. Reuters says he will be charged over an allegation by at least one accuser, Lucia Evans, a former aspiring actress who told the New Yorker that Weinstein forced her to give him oral sex in 2004. Sources: CNN and Reuters