Nike CEO Mark Parker (corr) has vowed to take the lead in  changing the global sneaker giant's toxic culture following revelations of sexist and grossly inappropriate behaviour conducted by men In a speech delivered to all employees, Parker acknowledged that he and other executives “missed something” and he’s resolved to cleaning up the company’s culture and reputation. “Throughout all of this change, we – and I – missed something. While many of us feel like we’re treated with respect at Nike, that wasn’t the case in all teams, and if all our teammates don’t see the same opportunities, we just can’t accept that,” Parker prepared to tell staffers on Thursday, according to speech notes reported by CNBC. “I apologise to the people on our team who were excluded, and I apologise if some of those same people felt they had no one to turn to,” The New York Times quoted Parker as saying. “I want everyone at Nike to know their voices do matter and your bravery is making us better.” Parker’s apology comes after several senior Nike executives – including Nike brand president Trevor Edwards, who was largely seen as Parker’s successor – either quit or announced their intention to step down within the next few month after a group of women exposed a deeply embedded ‘boys club’ culture. Over 50 present and past female employees face testimonies, some of which were published by The New York Times, revealing how one boss tried to forcibly kiss a subordinate, another was subjected to a supervisor bragging about the fact that he carries condoms around in his backpack. Other women complained of being marginalised in meetings, that they were often overlooked for promotions and, to a large extent, were excluded from critical business divisions like the basketball division. READ MORE: Why men get more raises than women It remains to be seen whether Parker’s commitment will translate to real change for female employees at the company, but if you can relate to the Nike women’s experience, business coach Refilwe Khumalo shares a few strategies to help women working in a male-dominated working environment overcome stereotyping, inequalities, prejudice and patriarchy challenges. Communication You many encounter male leaders that are overpowering, but you need to ensure that your voice and contribution are heard, which requires you to be assertive. If this isn’t a strength of yours, try partaking in activities where you can practise voicing your opinion in a safe zone. Participating in female boot camps, debates and community or spiritual forums will help you grow your professional confidence. Interpersonal skills and emotional intelligence When working in a male-dominated environment, there may be times where your emotions, expertise and leadership will be challenged. Train yourself to separate your professional self from your emotions. To ensure that your male counterparts give you the respect you deserve you must stay as focused, consistent and assertive as possible. It’s important to have mentors, both inside and outside your industry, to get advice from and bounce ideas off. Surrounding yourself with a solid support system will help you to overcome the emotional challenges. Knowledge, education and expertise
Be confident, work diligently and aim to further your education, training and on-the-job experience. Joining industry organisations, attending conferences and keeping abreast od trends is key as knowledge and education are your most powerful assets.  