How often do you service your car? Don't wait for the service light to come on – check regularly to see if everything in your car is running correctly Did you know the lack of regular car maintenance can be dangerous and take away your independence? Faulty brakes, thinning tyre tread or low car fluids are just some of the problems you can find during maintenance checks. Casey Rousseau, Marketing Manager of 1st for Women Insurance, believes women should be prepared on the road and off it too. “Based on the latest Easter road stats and comments from Transport Minister Blade Nzimande, women are safer drivers than men, as 71% of fatalities were caused by male drivers, while only 24% were as a result of female drivers. Women want to be prepared for every scenario and there are some quick ways to check our cars before getting behind the wheel,” says Rousseau. Professional racing driver Clare Vale says the first step is for women to think of their cars as more than the thing that gets them from A to B. READ MORE: New cars are about to get even more expensive “By looking after your car properly, which includes regular services, you will find it hardly ever lets you down. And there are also a couple of things you can do during these intervals,” says Vale. Here three tips you will find handy: Once-a-week inspections: Walk around your car and check for any issues which can lead to bigger problems. Check for oil and water leaks. Inspect tyres for pothole damage and smooth patches. Windscreen chips or fractures can quickly turn into full-blown cracks, reducing driver visibility. Just like you, your car needs fluids: Don’t just wait for service intervals before changing your oil. Be sure to refer to the handbook to see what type of oil is right for your car and keep a small bottle in your car for top-ups. Also ensure your car is regularly topped up with water. The temperature gauge on the car will show whether the vehicle has the right level of water. Keep a two-litre bottle of water in the car to top up, especially while on long drives. When last did you check your spare tyre? Not something any of us would want to happen, but should the time come to change your tyre, you need to be prepared. When checking pressure and pumping up your tyres, do the same for the spare. 