Fashionista and media specialist Noni Gasa and bespoke menswear designer Rahim Rawjee will be coming to your screens soon as the resident judges on SA's first season of Project Runway Described as the “ultimate dream team”, Gasa and Rawjee bring a wealth of wisdom and insights from a retail and fashion industry perspective. Having begun her career as a features editor for a women’s magazine 13 years, Gasa has carved out an illustrious career working for leading retailers. She’s established herself as an authority in the luxury fashion space – holding a Master’s in Luxury Business and an MBA in Luxury Brand Management – and over the years consulting to global brands and advertising agencies. Designers wanting to impress Gasa will have to produce creative, yet commercially appealing garments. “I’m looking for originality, wear ability, commercial appeal and uncompromising quality,” she says. READ MORE: Project Runway SA announces mentor “Technical skill is important, of course, and so is having a sense of identity – knowing what you stand for and having a point of view. The most successful brands are firmly positioned in their purpose and craft a signature aesthetic that’s instantly recognised by the customer.” Rawjee is the creative mastermind behind bespoke luxury menswear brand Row-G, recognised globally for his refined aesthetic, impeccably crafted garments and his timeless, yet undeniably progressive style. An International Academy of Merchandising and Design graduate, Rawjee boasts former US President Barack Obama as one of his clients. While he has an uncompromising eye for detail and quality, he says he’ll be looking beyond a designer’s fabric choice. “In Project Runway, it’s more about the interpretation or the use of fabrics in a specific design. I’m more interested in what you choose to do with the cloth, rather than the cloth itself. A designer has such an important role – you have the potential to communicate to large masses of people through your clothes,” he says. READ MORE: 4 reasons to enter Project Runway SA “Your messaging can influence the way people look at things, the way people feel, the way they react – it’s much deeper than just a dress or a shirt and what the next colour for the season is. You almost have to have a knowledge far deeper than your conventional five senses can reveal to you. And you really have to have your finger on the pulse about everything – music, art, film, architecture, and pop-culture – absolutely everything.” Ndalo Pictures founder and CEO Khanyi Dhlomo says viewers will be mesmerised by their dynamic chemistry. “Noni and Rahim are the ultimate dream team for Project Runway SA. They are both highly accomplished, incredibly engaging and their chemistry absolutely sizzles,” Dhlomo says. Brought to you by Mzansi Magic and Ndalo Pictures, in association with 4th STREET Wines and production partners Rapid Blue, Project Runway SA Season 1 starts on Mzansi Magic, DStv channel 161 on DStv in July.