The University of Pretoria’s Gordon Institute of Business Science (Gibs) has once again ranked among the world’s 50 best business schools by the UK Financial Times in its 2018 Executive Education rankings The Financial Times has published its annual ranking of the world’s premier executive education programs and Gibs has retained its top position in Africa. This is the 15th year that Gibs has been placed in the annual ranking, which covers both customised programmes which are tailor-made for corporate customers and open programmes designed for leadership within organisations. A number of parameters are used to compile the ranking, which is based on the satisfaction levels of corporate clients and individual participants. With a combined ranking of 42, Gibs continues to hold its own as the leading African business school in this highly competitive space, on par with the world’s premier business schools such as London Business School, MIT, Sloan and Stanford Graduate School. READ MORE: SA has four of Africa’s top five business schools Gibs Dean, Professor Nicola Kleyn said, “This ranking amplifies that Gibs is indeed a global centre of excellence that offers state-of-the-art education. A collective effort from our faculty and programme execution team ensures that we keep delivering value to our clients.” The ranking looks at the best 90 business schools offering customised programmes and the best 75 offering open-enrolment programmes worldwide and highlights the quality and suitability of the programs and teaching excellence. The Financial Times looks at three factors to determine the rivals of world’s best international schools. Partner schools – which looks at the quality and quantity of the programmes developed and delivered in conjunction with other Equis or Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), accredited business schools. Value for money – which rates the programme design, teaching and materials in terms of value for money; Future use – which looks at the likelihood that clients will reuse Gibs for other customised programmes in future. Nishan Pillay, Gibs Open Programmes Director, said the school benchmarks itself against top business schools across the world. “This ranking is a testament to the quality produced at Gibs, from design through to delivery,” said Pillay. Director for Custom Programmes at Gibs Lerato Mahlasela said: “We work hard to ensure we deliver quality programmes that are in line with our customer needs. This ranking is a clear indication that our executive education programmes are in line with market expectations.” Four schools from South Africa made the grade across both the customised and open enrolment rankings in this year’s report. READ MORE: The best business schools in the country Gibs ranked as the best business school in the country and was the only South African school in the overall top 50. The University of Cape Town’s Graduate School of Business ranked 67th in the customised course ranking, followed by USB Executive Development which ranked 89th. Global non-degree executive training group Duke Corporate Education offered the highest-ranked custom course open to local executives. 