The brainchild of Zakheni Ngubo has proved its worth and has already started making a positive impact on the teaching and learning of mathematics and physical science Syafunda Digital Library is preloaded with some of South Africa’s best educational digital content and allows learners to download e-books, video tutorials, past papers and worksheets free of charge. This digital platform allows anyone within the km radius to download preloaded educational material even though they may not be connected to the Internet. Ngubo says they have improved the platform since its launch and it now allows teachers to access the material, plan their teaching lessons and track progress. “We have collected valuable data through our library, which helps with planning and diagnostic purposes in all levels of education,” he says. READ MORE: Syafunda e-learning empowers students They have now started working with schools management, with district, circuit and subject’ advisers making sure learning mathematics and physical sciences is easier. He says they brought stakeholders onto the board, including the Department of Education, Old Mutual, Programme for Improved Learning Outcomes (PILO) and the National Education Collaboration Trust (NECT). It has allowed them to centralise information and track the progress of learners and teachers, ultimately forming a partnership to improve the school results. “We have also added the teachers’ section, where they can access teacher training material. It allows us to track those curriculum coverages and digital lesson plans and integrating into an online system that works as a calendar,” he says. In a previous interview with DESTINY, Ngubo said he was inspired by his own experience when he was a high school learner in Umlazi, with very limited access to educational resources and information and he saw a need to help solve the crisis in education. “When I started working in the mobile sector at Virgin Mobile, I knew I had to find a way to use the technology in a very productive way,” he said. This library, which has been set up in schools, community centres and municipal libraries, has immensely improved the results of learners. He said at the time that the firm is an active member of Association for Mathematics Education of South Africa, which assists them to identify and build relationships with the best mathematics and science teachers and understand challenges faced by teachers.  They also source additional content through partnerships with publishers like Siyavula, Presto Academy, Digify Africa, Pearson and the Department of Education. “We empower and educate our students in a wide range of issues from academia, entrepreneurship, IT, career guidance and life skills,” he said. The programme is currently operating in 47 schools in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng and Old Mutual is set to help roll out Syafunda’s digital libraries in 23 additional KwaZulu-Natal schools. READ MORE: Vodacom NXT LVL dives into the future of careers in the digital realm “We are planning to roll-out the project to more than 120 schools by the end of the year. We are busy rolling out in Nkandla, Empangeni and Pinetown.” Ngubo adds that programme has improved the pass rate in schools and allows learners to develop confidence. “When we started, we were looking at 12% improvement for Grade 12 learners, but this has been surpassed. Now we are going even deeper to all grades in high school so that we can recognise gaps. “We will be able to measure the problem before we roll-out the project and then measure the learners’ competency after they have started this programme,” he says.