The TV series based on revelations contained in Jacques Pauw's damning best-selling book The President's Keepers will cost hundreds of millions of rands to produce, it's been revealed According to a Business Insider report, the three-season TV drama series, for which six episodes per season are being planned, will cost an estimated eye-watering R20  million per episode. This is according to series producer Neil van Deventer, who says the production will be world-class. “It will be right up there with the best. Strong storyline, fantastic cast and technically rounded to the highest of international standards,” he was quoted saying. READ MORE: Defiant Zuma mocks books written about him Based on revelations unearthed in the book, which exposed the extent of corruption that took place during Jacob Zuma’s tenure as President and identified the key players entrusted with protecting Zuma against prosecution, Van Deventer says the series will start from the year 1987 and take viewers through the years right up to the end of 2019 “or even beyond that, depending on what has happened by the time we reach development for season 3”. The drama is set for filming mostly in Cape Town and while it remains to be seen who will play the leading man himself, a few local actors have been approached to feature in the series that’s expected to boast a cast of 50-100 people. Van Deventer says he secured the rights to the book on the very day the book was first launched because he “instinctively” knew it was a book that was made for TV screens. Earlier this month, Pauw revealed that his book is now officially the top selling book of all time in the country, having sold 197 000 copies, of which 26 000 were ebook sales. READ MORE: SSA makes second attempt to have Jacques Pauw’s book withdrawn In a piece penned for The Daily Maverick, Pauw said sales far exceeded his expectations, which had been set at 20 000 copies. He reckons President Cyril Ramaphosa helped boost sales when he confirmed in Parliament that he was reading the book, placed at his bedside table. “I suspect that people didn’t just buy the book for its juicy content, but saw it as a act of defiance and outrage against the Zuma regime,” Pauw wrote.