The South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) has introduced an HIV/Aids awareness programme for its road maintenance staff, which it says is part of its wellness focus Spokesperson Vusi Mona said the wellness programme, which is centred on health risk assessment, facilitation of health topics and monitoring, had been running concurrently with the 12 RRM projects from January 2016. Testing for HIV, TB, cholesterol, glucose and body mass index has provided some valuable insights and has led to the establishment of an emergency 24/7 call centre, which workers, especially those with adverse issues, can use for health management and counselling. “Our mandate is to build a better South Africa for all citizens. While we are achieving this through the improvement of our roads, it is important to us that those who actually get their hands dirty to achieve this are also well taken care of.” READ MORE: Act empowers children to consent to HIV test Mona said the call centre grants employees and their family members access to biologic monitoring and psychological counselling, which assists with stress management, substance abuse and critical incident management. Sanral’s management team acknowledged that it was important to invest in bringing health facilities to their people. Besides the obvious health benefits to workers and the community, the implementation of the programme has also had an impact on unemployment in project areas. On each project, Sanral appoints a Wellness Champion, who is tasked with educating and informing labourers on healthy living. “While we strive to create better working conditions on a daily basis, we celebrate the successes of our wellness programme in May with a particular emphasis on workers and their wellness.” Tshegare Moletsane, Sanral Project Manager in Limpopo, said educating labourers has brought about considerable changes. It has dealt with the stigma around HIV/Aids and more men on site have embraced the importance of being tested and knowing their state of health. READ MORE: Contraceptive injection increases HIV risk by 40% “Following the many successes of the rollout, Sanral has taken this programme national and with its footprint across South Africa, one can only imagine the impact it has had on communities across the country,” said Mona. – African News Agency