As Africans around the world commemorate Africa Day, here are a few ways you can celebrate meaningfully  beyond 25 May Fifty-five years ago, 32 African countries came together after gaining independence to express solidarity with one another to form the Organisation of African Unity. Today, that body is known as the African Union and while some significant steps have been taken in redressing the myriad of challenges born from the legacy of colonialism, we still have a long way to go. As Africans, we each hold a responsibility to do our part in whichever way we can, to empower each other – socially, politically and economically – and build a unified continent. In your small way as a consumer, here’s how you can celebrate Africa every day. Buy local products It’s no secret that Africans are extremely aspirational and we love everything that originates from the West. We decry the exorbitant price tags attached to locally produced garments, yet we’re prepared to fork out thousands for an “it” brand’s latest must-have item. READ MORE: Head-wraps we love on Africa Day It’s time for us as Africans to make more of a concerted effort to buy local and African where we can – whether it’s food, fashion, art, furniture, skincare or hair products. Explore the vast beauty and cultural experiences the continent has to offer Africa is a treasure drove of hidden travel destination gems and a melting pot of diverse cultures. From Big Five spotting in Southern Africa and tracking gorillas in Rwanda to idyllic island beaches, the great Serengeti wildebeest migration from Tanzania to Kenya and so much more in-between, there’s a world of experiences to discover on the continent. Instead of taking that trip to the USA – again – why not choose to explore the beauty and rich culture around us first? You’ll be killing two birds with one stone – playing your part in growing the continent’s economy, while expanding your cultural horizons. Support African talent The launch of music-streaming services over the years and a big improvement in Internet penetration levels on the continent, Africans now, more than ever, have greater access to African musical talent. Look out for marketplace platforms that have been set up with the sole purpose of connecting Africans with each other.