In the run-up to the upcoming royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, a recent survey revealed South Africans show the second highest interest level in the wedding in the world A new global Ipsos survey, carried out online in 28 countries, including South Africa, examines the levels of interest in the royal wedding, as well as wider feelings towards the royal family and its members. The survey included South Africans who enjoy regular Internet access and represents that portion of the population, rather than being fully representative. It sought to find out which members of the royal family are liked the most as well. The survey among adults under 65 years of age finds that the Queen and Prince Harry are the most liked members of the royal family overall around the world, each picked by 23% on average. READ MORE: Will Meghan Markle be following these royal wedding rules? Globally, next come the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, chosen by 17% and 18% respectively, and their children, George and Charlotte (picked by 10% and 9%). While different countries have their favourites, Prince Harry is the most liked member in South Africa at 42%, ahead of the Queen, who scored 30%. Some 25% of South Africans have regard for Prince William, and 23% for the Duchess of Cambridge, Catherine. Meghan Markle has already gained affection from 19% of the South African population. The survey also finds that the Queen is the most liked in 10 of the 28 countries, while Prince Harry is the most popular in eight countries, including Britain, Australia and South Africa. When it comes to the wedding itself, South Africans show the second highest interest levels with 49%, while India secured 54%, much higher than the global average. Around one in four (27%) worldwide say they are at least fairly interested in news about it. When asked what impact the royal family has on their views of Britain, around half on average (51%) say it makes no difference. South Africans also identify with the words powerful (40%) and self-confident (27%) when describing their perception of the UK that the British royal family reinforces. READ MORE: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle decline wedding gifts, ask for donations The majority of connected South Africans (54%) feel that the royal family makes them feel no different with regard to their feelings about the UK and 41% believe that it would make no difference if the royal family was abolished (compared to 38% globally). The survey finds that 35% of South Africans believe that it would be worse for our country to have a constitutional monarchy, instead of an elected head of state. Almost a quarter (24%) believe that it would make the country better. 