The Smartbucks financial literacy programme will ensure that greater emphasis is put on financial literacy skills a young person needs to learn The national youth financial literacy programme, Smartbucks Mind Your Moolah, aims to generate a vibrant savings culture among young people and assist them to transition into economically active and financially conscious adults. Primestars launched this year’s programme at the Sandton Convention Centre on Wednesday with the support of public-private partnerships including the Department of Basic Education, Liberty and Calgro M3. Martin Sweet from Primestars said when they started the programme five years ago, their goal was to educate 15 000 historically disadvantaged learners from across the country about how to become smart with their money. READ MORE: Teaching your daughter financial independence in the time of the ‘blesser’ “I am proud to say that to date, we have reached over 75 000 learners and will reach a further 15 000 this year, using the cinema channel. The challenge with any broad-based education intervention is finding an effective vehicle that can deliver quality content to a large number of beneficiaries at an affordable cost,” he said. This year’s Smartbucks programme is screening at 14 cinema complexes across the country over a period of five consecutive Saturdays. Learners enjoy the cinema experience for free and are given educational booklets to reinforce the financial lessons they learn from the film. The programme aims to generate a vibrant savings culture amongst young people and assist them to transition into economically active and financially conscious adults. “We are proud to have partnered with Primestars to deliver on this key project, responding to a critical need in the country; financial literacy. As Liberty we strongly believe that interventions such as these go a long way in creating an inclusive economy which the country is in dire need of” says Xolisa Vapi, Divisional Director, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability at Liberty. “Our programmes are aimed at enabling financial freedom for future generations, hence our focus on schools. With the Smartbucks programme, we broadened our reach and went for a wider national footprint – reaching about 15 000 leaners,” he adds. Wikus Lategan, CEO of Calgro M3, said: “Calgro M3 is exceptionally proud to be co-sponsoring the Primestars Smartbucks programme for the first time this year. The Smartbucks programme, which teaches learners about financial concepts such as managing debt, looking after one’s savings and spending wisely, in an engaging, fun way, while delivering powerful messages, is something that we can really get behind.” READ MORE: How to raise financially savvy children The programme is being presented to Grade 9, 10, 11 and 12 learners in a movie format and will be screened at selected Ster-Kinekor theatres across South Africa every Saturday morning from 5 May to 2 June 2018. For practical application, the learners will receive a financial literacy toolkit to enable them to further engage the concepts of earning, saving, budgeting, debt and investing. The movie titled One Way to Graceland has an impactful storyline that proves that starting financial education at a young age aids in the development of healthy financial habits so that the young professionals of tomorrow go on to enjoy lasting success.