Former US President Barack Obama and wife Michelle have signed a multi-year deal with Netflix A multi-year production deal with Netflix will see Barack and the former First Lady, Michelle, producing TV shows and films for the streaming service. The two will work both in front and behind the camera with the option to produce documentaries, feature films, unscripted and scripted series. The deal is expected to give Barack an international TV platform during his post-presidency and possibly allowing him to reach millions of people in the USA and globally. New York Times reports the couple have created Higher Ground productions – a company that will produce content for Netflix. READ MORE: Gallery: All the times the Obamas made our hearts melt The first content is expected to appear in 2019 at the earliest, according to CNN. The streaming service announced that the Obamas will produce a diverse mix of content, including the potential for scripted series, unscripted series, docu-series, documentaries and features. The former President has apparently told associates that he does not intend to use the new platform to wage a public campaign against his successor in the Oval Office, or to fight against conservative voices that populate media outlets like Fox News. In a statement seen by New York Times, Barack said one of the simple joys of their time in public service was getting to meet so many fascinating people from all walks of life and to help them share their experiences with a wider audience. “That’s why Michelle and I are so excited to partner with Netflix — we hope to cultivate and curate the talented, inspiring, creative voices who are able to promote greater empathy and understanding between people and help them share their stories with the entire world,” he was quoted as saying. READ MORE: Barack Obama to deliver annual Nelson Mandela lecture Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos said the deal will benefit the service’s audience. “Barack and Michelle Obama are among the world’s most respected and highly recognised public figures and are uniquely positioned to discover and highlight stories of people who make a difference in their communities and strive to change the world for the better,” said Sarandos. Additional reporting by CNN and New York Times 