Scientists have found that black women face higher exposure to hazardous chemicals through the hair and beauty products they use – and it's having an adverse effect on their hormones Have you ever wondered why black girls seem to be predisposed to going through puberty earlier than their white counterparts? Or why black women have a higher prevalence rate of breast and cervical cancer and uterine fibroids? Scientists at the Silent Spring Institute in Massachusetts in the USA conducted a study testing 18 hair products commonly used by black women, based on a survey. The hair products included hot oils, root stimulators, leave-in conditioners, ant-frizz hair polishes, lotion and relaxers. The study was designed to measure levels of endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDC) – a man-made chemical that is found in many of the products we use regularly like perfumes, creams, detergents and haircare products. EDC’s are associated with endometriosis, heart disease hypertension, diabetes, infertilirt, birth defects, asthma, cancer and reproductive disorders. Each hair product was tested for the presence of 66 endocrine disruptors and of these, scientists found a total of 45 endocrine disruptors. READ MORE: What relaxing your daughter’s hair could mean for her health Each product contained anything between four and 30 endocrine disruptors. Other key findings include: Most alarming was the fact that 84% of the chemicals detected in the products weren’t actually listed on the product label. Dr Sundeep Ruder, a clinical endocrinologist, says parabens can impact a woman at any stage of her life, but tend to be most sensitive to exposure during gestational period when a woman is pregnant, the neonatal period and during puberty in young people. “EDC can impact on health  through affecting hormone function in the body in an adverse way. More evidence is emerging that these chemicals are more prevalent than we thought and they are having a major health impact, the magnitude of which we don’t fully understand yet,” Ruder was quoted saying in an interview with Talk Radio 702. READ MORE: The causes of hair loss The negative effects of relaxers have been well documented. One study of haircare and skincare products found that some items used widely by black women had oestrogenic or anti-oestrogenic activity, meaning they imitated the effects of the hormone oestrogen. “Other studies have found that black Americans had higher urinary concentrations of parabens, the hormone-disrupting chemicals commonly used as preservatives in personal-care products, pharmaceuticals and foods,” according to the Environmental Working Group. The number of people who have stopped relaxing their hair has dropped, with more women opting to go natural. Ruder however says consumers need to cautious study the labelling on product bottles, but at the same time bear in mind that just because a product claims to be chemical free that’s not always the case. “When you see a product that specifies not having one or other chemical, it doesn’t always mean it’s completely clear of chemicals,” he warns.   