When it comes to running a new or small business, there is so much more than profitability to consider As an entrepreneur, it’s crucial to gauge how your business is performing to ensure that it is sustainable. Executive Business Coach Pat Roberts says the first step is to determine your business type and the overall aim. “You need to analyse whether your business is a subsistence one, which will pay you enough to cover your living costs each month or a business that has the potential to grow into something that creates wealth and creates employment for others,” she advises. These are two very different types of businesses and each should be handled completely differently. Naturally, the bigger your business grows, the larger the potential reward, but it comes with increased risk and responsibility. The two different business types also translate into different lifestyles for the business-owners. What sacrifices are you prepared to make for your business? Assessing your business It’s important to make regular assessments of how your business is doing. If you fail to do so, you could fall into the trap of deluding yourself and not grasping the real financial standing of your business. Roberts recommends analysing the performance of your business across all of the metrics listed below on a monthly basis: Each of these elements requires at least one target or goal, because they are all critical to the success of the business. “No matter how well you are doing on most of the elements, if one of them is being neglected or ineffectively managed, it puts the entire business at risk of failure,” says Roberts. “By keeping your finger on the pulse of these key aspects, you will have early enough warning to put measures in place to sort out any areas that are not performing. You will also find that by thinking about each aspect of the business intentionally every month, you will start to generate new ideas about how to increase your effectiveness. Consistent care and attention will open up the potential for more growth and less risk.” Thinking long-term One of the aspects of business that needs attention continuously is long-term viability. Just because it’s making money today, it doesn’t mean that it always will. “Continuously think about how you could evolve your business, what you could do that no one has tried yet and what others could do that might reduce your profit. Believing that everything will always stay the same is a fool’s paradise and will not end well for you,” warns Roberts. “Keep up to date with what others are doing in your sector locally and globally. Strive to always consider what’s next and know that your business needs to evolve in order to stay relevant,” she concludes. 