Castle Lager insists it did not take sides in the Ashwin Willemse saga, but wants to raise awareness of the dangers of stereotyping in South African communities Brand Director Vaughan Croeser says Castle Lager wanted to stand for what is right and influence the voice of positivity. “As brand-owners, we have a duty to be the counterpoint to that negativity – we can bring a positive message, I know it looks opportunistic but it is an opportunity our brand is leaning into because we believe in it,” he says. Castle Lager announced on Monday that it had taken the decision to drop bottle labels in a move motivated by various incidents which have taken place across the country. It aimed to show solidarity with victims of stereotyping and labelling. Croeser says just over a year ago, Castle Lager conducted research across the country to see how it could bring people closer together and establish what is keeping South Africans apart. “The findings were that young South Africans crave a more united country and they believe that preconceptions and stereotypes was a critical barrier. READ MORE: Castle Lite commits to changing stereotype of women who drink beer “Our brand has always been a symbol of togetherness and friendship. We thought of this campaign about a year ago. We say in a world where labels keep South Africans apart, we want to be the label that brings people together,” he says. He says the brand recognises the need to promote constructive engagement and conversation around a common love for the country and drop the negative labels we sometimes place on each other. The brand is encouraging South Africans from all walks of life to stop assigning labels and see the beauty that every South African has to offer, because it believes that when we go beyond the label and get to know each other, we can build a better South Africa. “When I think about Castle Lager’s role in the World Cup, we all have that feeling of togetherness, it was in that moment that people truly felt the Rainbow Nation. I feel like we’ve gone back again and the big thing that is happening is lots of labelling and stereotyping – so that’s why we are taking off the label,” Croeser says. The label-less packs will be available at the Castle Lager Incoming Series Springboks matches from 9 June to encourage people to start a conversation. “We want to get the conversation about labels and stereotyping going. We will then see how we progress with the communication,” said Croeser. READ MORE: Amstel Lite red-carded over packaging He said it was the right time to start the conversation because of negativity on social media. However, Croeser explained that people have accused the brand of being opportunistic and capitalising on negativity. “This issue is bigger than race – it is stereotyping and labelling. It leads to hate speech, things like xenophobia, homophobia or social intolerance, and these are the things that we want to address.” He says when following the Ashwin Willemse conversation on Twitter, it felt like South Africans had stopped believing in the idea of the Rainbow Nation. “We believe on bringing people closer together. Castle believe it and we not going to rest until we reach that realm of a more united nation – I know it’s going to be messy, we’ve seen it on social media in the past few days. We have to learn to deal with our biases,” he says. He says the brand is passionate about the subject and will not back down. Croeser encourages social media users to use the #SmashTheLabel hashtag and participate in the conversation. 