From royals to Hollywood stars and sports icons, we give you some of our favourite beauty looks from Meghan and Harry's royal union While the blushing bride had the world’s attention on every detail of her wedding day, some of the guests garnered their own stares. Take a look at some of our favourite beauty looks as well as the sneak peeks some of the guests were happy to share with us just before they stepped out for Meghan’s big day. Purple Reign Actress Priyanka Chopra blossomed in blooming purples to usher in spring and celebrate the royal wedding. Make-up artist Pati Dubroff created a stunning lilac lid to match a magenta lip for the occasion, which she shared to her own social media. Golden Girl Tennis champion Serena Williams opted for a demure, golden glow for the royal nuptials with spectacular highlights to her cheekbones and the bridge of her nose. However, Serena gave her eight million Instagram followers a treat as she took us through her entire royal wedding beauty prep (complete with cute videos of baby Alexis) allowing her audience to get ready with her on her Instagram stories, commenting in one of her videos: “I’m definitely shaping my brows today” … And girl, we could tell! English Rose Lips Lawyer (and Hollywood royal herself) Amal Clooney, stunned with a classic yet elegant red lip and loose, romantic dark curls to complement her canary yellow, Stella McCartney outfit at the wedding, proving that the red statement lip, some eyeliner and a hint of blush are all you need in the way of make-up – even for a large-scale celebration. Blush… and blush some more Lady Kitty Spencer, Princess Diana’s niece and Harry’s cousin, stunned as she arrived to the wedding with a knotted up-do and blush lips to match her make-up of light pinks carried to her cheeks and eyes – perfect for the spring wedding. Sleek, sophisticated styling Idris Elba’s model fiancée, Sabrina Dhowre, chose to sport chic, long hair paired with a demure brick red lip, creating a nude effect, which was perfect for the nuptials, making her unassuming look easy to recreate. 