Bedwetting is an issue in many homes around the world and it isn't just children who are affected This problem does not only affect children – adults around the world also struggle with bedwetting. Today marks World Bedwetting Day, a day that aims to raise awareness among the public and healthcare professionals of this common condition. The International Children’s Society and the European Society for Paediatric Urology first launched this day back in 2015. Dr Michael Mol, Brand Ambassador for DryNites Pyjama Pants, chats to us about how to treat this condition. He says that although research has shown that over 18% of children aged five and over still wet the bed, young adults also struggle with this condition. READ MORE: Blood test can help spot autism in children – study Bedwetting is linked to delays in physiological development and external factors where a child may be facing issues at school or a change in family dynamics. Bedwetting may also be hereditary. Mol says it is caused by lower capacity bladder in children and adults, the inability to produce sufficient hormone that tells you to produce less urine at night and deep sleepers who lack the awareness that their bladders are full. He reckons that although it doesn’t appear common, the problem does exist among young adults. “It does, but when you look at adults, it is far less common and needs medical attention from doctors or specialists because that is unusual and it got some sort of pathology associated with it,” he says. He says for adults over the age of 18, they need to consult neurologists or other specialists, as this could be linked to diabetes or an overactive bladder. “Unlike kids who wet their bed and will outgrow it, an adult who wets their bed needs to be treated by professionals,” he says. He says bedwetting can have a significant impact on a child’s self-esteem. READ MORE: Raise a hand for hygiene this Global Handwashing Day “Bedwetters generally value themselves less than other kids. From the parent’s perspective, if you have a child who wets their bed, you need to support them,” he says. According to Mol, one in six children wet their beds. Use these tips to manage bedwetting at home: Limit beverages in the evening Avoid giving your child water or juice in the evening two hours before bedtime. Motivational techniques Children tend to feel very self-conscious, knowing that they suffer from bedwetting. One way of encouraging your child not to feel embarrassed or awkward is to record every night when they have not had an accident. Not only does this help you when you decide to consult a doctor, but it also gives your child the extra confidence they need, knowing that last night there were no accidents. Consult a doctor There may be times where you decide that you want to consult a doctor. There are several healthcare professionals who can help you deal with bedwetting. These specialists can also provide you with the advice you need to assist both you and your child. Specialists include paediatricians or paediatric urologists, but you will need a referral from your GP. 